CENTER FOR DRUG EVALUATION AND 
RESEARCH 

 
 

APPLICATION NUMBER: 
 

216660Orig1s000 
 
 

ADMINISTRATIVE and CORRESPONDENCE  
DOCUMENTS 

 
 
 
 
  



 
IND 129563 
 

MEETING MINUTES 
 
Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
Attention: Ms. Tammy Sarnelli 
Global Head, Regulatory Affairs 
43 Thorndike Street 
Cambridge, MA  02141 
 
 
Dear Ms. Sarnelli: 
 
Please refer to your investigational new drug application (IND) submitted under section 
505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for AMX0035. 
 
We also refer to the telecon between representatives of your firm and the FDA on July 
15, 2021. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the content and format of a New 
Drug Application for AMX0035.   
 
A copy of the official minutes of the meeting/telecon is enclosed for your information.  
Please notify us of any significant differences in understanding regarding the meeting 
outcomes. 
 
If you have any questions, contact Michelle Mathers, Regulatory Project Manager, at 
michelle.mathers@fda.hhs.gov or at (240) 402-2645. 
 
 

Sincerely, 
 
{See appended electronic signature page} 
 
 
Teresa Buracchio, MD  
Deputy Director  
Division of Neurology 1 
Office of Neuroscience 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 

 
 
Enclosure: 

 Meeting Minutes 
 

 

Reference ID: 4829582



 
 

MEMORANDUM OF MEETING MINUTES 
 

Meeting Type: Type B 
Meeting Category: Pre-NDA 
 
Meeting Date and Time: July 15, 2021; 2:00-3:00 p.m. EDT 
Meeting Location: Telecon 
 
Application Number: IND 129563 
Product Name: AMX0035 
 
Indication: Treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  
Sponsor Name: Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
Regulatory Pathway: 505(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act  
 
 
FDA ATTENDEES 
 
Office of Neuroscience 
Billy Dunn, MD, Director 
Michelle Campbell, PhD, Associate Director for Clinical Outcomes and External 

Engagement 
 
Division of Neurology 1 
Eric Bastings, MD, Director (Acting) 
Teresa Buracchio, MD, Deputy Director 
Emily Freilich, MD, Clinical Team Leader 
Veneeta Tandon, PhD, Clinical Reviewer 
Deniz Erten-Lyons, MD, Clinical Reviewer  
 
Division of Pharmacology/Toxicology - Neuroscience 
Lois Freed, PhD, Director 
Dave Carbone, PhD, Nonclinical Reviewer 
 
Office of Biostatistics 
Kun Jin, PhD, Biometrics Team Leader, Biometrics I 
Tristan Massie, PhD, Statistical Reviewer 
 
Office of Clinical Pharmacology, Division of Clinical Pharmacology I 
Bilal AbuAsal, PhD, Clinical Pharmacology Team Leader 
Xiaohan Cai, PhD, Clinical Pharmacology Reviewer 
 
 

 
 

Reference ID: 4829582






IND 129563 
Page 3 
 
 

FDA Response to Question 1:  
 
Please provide further details on what supportive efficacy data from Study A35-
004 would be submitted during the NDA review period. We would be interested in 
(appropriately firewalled) primary endpoint descriptive results from all patients 
who have completed 24 weeks of study treatment by 4 months after submission 
of the application. If your pre-specified interim analysis is available earlier than 
currently anticipated and during the review of the NDA, you should submit the 
topline results from that analysis to the NDA.  
 
Regarding safety data from Study A35-004, you should submit to the NDA 
blinded reports of all serious adverse events (SAEs) and deaths, along with 
hyperlinks to the narratives, no later than the target date for the 120-day safety 
update.  
 
We acknowledge the proposal to provide the final data from Study A35-004 
within 3 years of marketing approval. 
 
Of note, we also refer you to Attachment 1 at the end of this document, General 
Clinical Safety Requests, when preparing the NDA submission. Note that the 
General Clinical Safety Requests are common requests for safety analyses that 
you should consider for inclusion in your safety summary; however, the requests 
may not be applicable to all study populations. You should include the requests 
that are appropriate for your study population. 
 
Meeting Discussion: 
 
The Division sought clarification on the timing of the planned NDA submission 
and what supportive efficacy data from Study A35-004 would be submitted during 
the NDA review. The sponsor clarified that the target NDA submission timeline is 
the end of November 2021, and that the sponsor intends to submit appropriately 
firewalled primary efficacy endpoint descriptive data approximately 4 months 
post-NDA submission.  It is estimated that this will provide descriptive data from 
approximately 250 subjects, with approximately 75 subjects who will have 
completed 20-25 weeks of assessment. All patients are planned to have monthly 
data points on the ALSFRS-R. In addition, the sponsor also clarified its intention 
to provide all available blinded safety data from this study.  
 
The Division clarified that interim blinded safety data from Study A35-004 may 
not be informative to characterize the safety of AMX0035. The sponsor could 
consider providing appropriately firewalled unblinded safety data similar to that 
proposed for efficacy data (see discussion below), if that is feasible. Alternatively, 
if that is not feasible, the sponsor should provide blinded reports of SAEs, 
deaths, and discontinuations due to adverse events from Study A35-004 with 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 4 
 
 

hyperlinks to the narratives. The sponsor indicated that it would take this 
recommendation into consideration. 
 
The Division further inquired about the enrollment status and the number of sites 
planned for Study A35-004. The sponsor clarified that no patients are enrolled to 
date, but there are 55-60 study sites planned in the United States and EU 
combined, and the first patient is expected to enroll in late August 2021. The 
sponsor anticipates rapid enrollment, with the planned 600 patients to complete 
within one year.  
 
The Division recognized that there are challenges to ensuring an appropriate 
firewall for the assessment of the unblinded data, and the importance of 
maintaining the integrity of Study A35-004. The sponsor should submit a detailed 
proposal for feedback by early August, to include a description of the unblinded 
data that would be included in such a submission and the steps that would be 
taken to ensure an adequate firewall so as not to endanger the integrity of the 
study. The sponsor agreed to provide this information.  
 
 
Question 2: Does the Agency concur that the information provided on AMX0035 
satisfies the recommendations of the combination guidance? 
 
FDA Response to Question 2: 
 
You should provide justification in your future marketing application that the 
available data adequately satisfy the requirements of the combination rule.  The 
acceptability of this justification will be a matter of review. 
 
Meeting Discussion:  
 
This question was not discussed during the meeting. 
 

 
Question 3: Does the Agency concur with the proposed clinical pharmacology 
package? 
 
FDA Response to Question 3: 

 
For an adequate clinical pharmacology package, we have the following 
comments for you to consider and address before the NDA submission:  
 

 You may not need to conduct a human mass balance study before the 
NDA submission. However, you should adequately report the information 
about the exposure for any major and or active metabolites in humans. In 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 5 
 
 

addition, you can analyze available urine PK data to characterize the 
clearance and elimination of TUDCA and its major metabolites.  

 
 You should complete all of the in vitro DDI studies, including the 

evaluation on the DDI liability of the major and active metabolites of 
AMX0035 as outlined in the Guidance In Vitro Drug Studies-Cytochrome 
P450 Enzyme-and Transporter Mediated Drug Interactions1 before the 
NDA submission. If any active metabolites contributing to more than 50% 
of the pharmacological activities are identified, you should evaluate 
whether any of the active metabolites are substrates of major CYPs and 
transporters. In your meeting package, you did not present all of the in 
vitro DDI results and conclusion for the DDI liability of AMX0035 parent 
drugs.  

 
 You should evaluate the effect of drug administration via the gastrostomy 

or nasogastric tube on the absorption of AMX0035. You should conduct 
in-vitro testing to assess the absorption after administration through the 
feeding tube. Refer to the FDA draft guidance Oral Drug Products 
Administered Via Enteral Feeding Tube:  In Vitro Testing and Labeling 
Recommendations2. 

 
 If the to-be-marketed formulation is different than the formulation used in 

clinical trial(s), you will need to establish a bridge between these 
formulations.  
 

 Please provide a “review aid” for Clinical Pharmacology in the NDA 
submission. A template is attached as an appendix. 

 
 The following link contains the general expectations for submitting 

pharmacometrics data and models:  https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/center-
drug-evaluation-and-research-cder/modeldata-format 

 
 

Please be prepared to discuss at the meeting whether you have available data 
concerning the above issues, and what impact, if any, these issues will have on 
the timeline for preparation of your NDA. 
 
The following clinical pharmacology studies may be needed after the review of 
your NDA submission: 
 

 As stated in your meeting package, AMX0035 caused an inhibitory effect 
on OAT1 in vitro. You should address the potential drug-drug interaction 

 
1 https://www.fda.gov/media/134582/download 
2 https://www.fda.gov/media/149688/download 
 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 6 
 
 

between AMX0035 and OAT1 substrates in vivo to inform labeling 
recommendations. 
 

 In addition, based on the in vitro DDI results and criteria for warranting 
clinical studies as outlined in the guidance, additional in vivo studies may 
be needed. 

 
Meeting Discussion:  
The sponsor plans to submit the results from in vitro DDI studies on major 
metabolites in February 2022, after the submission of the NDA in November 
2021 (per attached meeting slides). The clinical pharmacology team agreed with 
the proposed timeline for the in vitro DDI studies and confirmed that the lack of in 
vitro DDI studies on major metabolites would not be a filing issue for the NDA 
submission. 
  
The clinical pharmacology team also asked the sponsor to confirm whether the 
exposure of all major metabolites of AMX0035 has been adequately 
characterized, and the sponsor confirmed that adequate characterization of all 
major metabolites will be provided at the time of NDA submission.  

 
 
2.2.  Nonclinical  
 

Question 4: Amylyx has conducted a full battery of nonclinical studies to 
investigate the safety of AMX0035 including those evaluating genotoxicity, 
systemic toxicity, developmental effects, safety pharmacology, and drug-drug 
interactions (DDI). 
 
Given the nature of ALS, we propose to conduct a carcinogenicity study in 
rodents in the postmarketing setting. 
 
Does the Agency concur with the nonclinical package at time of NDA 
submission? 

 
FDA Response to Question 4: 

 
Based on the information provided in your briefing package, we have the 
following comments: 
 

 You indicate that AMX0035 has been assessed in a standard battery of 
reproductive and developmental toxicology studies; however, it is unclear 
whether a pre and postnatal development study has been conducted. 
 

 You should address the adequacy of the nonclinical safety assessment of 
any major circulating human metabolites, as discussed in guidance (ICH 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 7 
 
 

M3(R2), January 2010; ICH M3 Questions and Answers (R2), February 
2013). (Also, see response to Question 3.) 

 
 As we have previously stated (Meeting Minutes, April 7, 2020), because of 

the seriousness of the indication, carcinogenicity studies may be 
conducted post-approval. 
 

 Please see response to Question 3 for regarding the in vitro DDI 
evaluation.  

 
Meeting Discussion:  

 
The sponsor stated that the final study report for a pre- and postnatal 
development (PPND) study is scheduled to be submitted in February 2022, after 
original submission of the NDA in November 2021. The Division stated that such 
an approach would be acceptable, i.e., the lack of the PPND study in the original 
submission would not be a filing issue. However, the Division also noted that, 
depending upon the timing of submission, it is possible that there would not be 
enough time to review the study during the review cycle. 

 
 
2.3. Chemistry Manufacturing and Controls 
 
 

Question 5: Based on statutory interpretation, a drug substance meets the 
definition of “new chemical entity” and is eligible for 5-year NCE exclusivity, if at 
least one component of a fixed-dose combination is itself an NCE. 
 
The proprietary co-formulation of AMX0035 includes sodium phenylbutyrate and 
taurursodiol. While sodium phenylbutyrate has been approved (Buphenyl for the 
treatment of urea cycle disorders), taurursodiol is an unapproved drug 
substance; therefore, we believe that AMX0035 is eligible for 5-year NCE 
exclusivity. Amylyx intends to file via the 505(b)1 pathway. 
 
Does the Agency agree that NCE Status would be appropriate for 
AMX0035? 
 
FDA Response to Question 5: 
 
Please be advised that the Agency does not make exclusivity determinations 
pursuant to sections 505(c)(3)(E) and (j)(5)(F) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act, and 21 CFR 314.108, until after approval of an NDA. As 
described at 314.50(j), an applicant should include in its NDA a description of 
the exclusivity to which the applicant believes it is entitled. FDA will consider the 
applicant’s assertions regarding exclusivity in the review of the application. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 8 
 
 

Please also note that the New Molecular Entity (NME) determination for an 
application is distinct from and independent of the New Chemical Entity (NCE) 
determination and any related exclusivity determinations. 

 
Meeting Discussion:  
 
This question was not discussed during the meeting. 
 

 
2.4. Regulatory  
 
 

Question 6: Amylyx requests that AMX0035 receive priority review due to the 
high, unmet need in a serious and life-threatening disease (ALS). 
 
Does the Agency concur that the product should be considered for priority 
review? 
 
FDA Response to Question 6: 
 
Priority review designation requests may be submitted with the original 
NDA.  Please refer to the Guidance for Industry: Expedited Programs for Serious 
Conditions--Drugs and Biologics3 for content of a priority review designation 
submission.   
 
The final decision regarding priority review designation is a matter of review. 
Applicants will be informed in writing by Day 60 of the review if the application will 
receive priority review; or by Day 74 of the review for standard review 
designation. Applications that are not filed do not receive a review designation. 
 
Meeting Discussion:  
 
This question was not discussed during the meeting. 
 
 
Controlled Substance Staff Comments: 
 
Drugs that affect the central nervous system, are chemically or pharmacologically 
similar to other drugs with known abuse potential, or produce psychoactive 
effects such as mood or cognitive changes (e.g., euphoria, hallucinations) need 
to be evaluated for their abuse potential and if applicable a proposal for 

 
3 https://www.fda.gov/files/drugs/published/Expedited-Programs-for-Serious-Conditions-Drugs-and-
Biologics.pdf 
 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 9 
 
 

scheduling will be required at the time of the NDA submission 
[21 CFR 314.50(d)(5)(vii)].  For information on the abuse potential evaluation and 
information required at the time of your NDA submission, see the Guidance for 
Industry, Assessment of Abuse Potential of Drugs4. 
 
Based on the information presented in your briefing package, nonclinical abuse-
related studies are not necessary at this time for evaluating AMX0035 for abuse 
potential.  However, we cannot determine whether AMX0035 has a risk of abuse 
potential until all study reports (toxicological, PK, and PD nonclinical and clinical) 
and analyses of adverse events (AEs) have been submitted and reviewed. 
 
We also have the following comments:  

 Unless you can provide information to justify there is no need to evaluate 
the receptor binding profile of your product form an abuse perspective, 
you will need to submit off-target receptor binding data on the active 
pharmacological ingredients of AMX0035 (sodium phenylbutyrate and 
tauroursodiol and any major metabolites), evaluating receptors known to 
be associated with abuse potential.  Where applicable, you should also 
provide study results from functional assays characterizing the interaction 
of major metabolites at the receptors associated with abuse of which they 
were shown to activate. The final study reports (or published research 
articles) for the receptor binding and functional activity results should be 
submitted.  See section IV.B of the Guidance, Assessment of Abuse 
Potential of Drugs. 

 Monitor and report all CNS- and abuse-related adverse events (AEs) for 
all clinical studies (Phase 1, 2, and 3) with AMX0035.  Provide detailed 
narratives for any abuse-related AEs in accordance with 
recommendations in section V.B. of the above-mentioned guidance.  
Should a pattern of abuse-related AEs occur in your clinical studies, 
additional nonclinical or clinical studies of abuse potential may be 
necessary, as indicated in the 2017 Guidance for Industry, Assessment of 
Abuse Potential of Drugs. 

 

 

 
4 http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM198650.pdf 
 
 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 10 
 
 

Meeting Discussion:  
 

The controlled substance staff comments were not discussed during the 
meeting. 

ADDITIONAL MEETING DISCUSSION: 

The Division inquired about the ability to submit the NDA earlier than the proposed 
November timeframe, given that the sponsor is already preparing submissions for other 
regulatory agencies and based on the above meeting discussion. The sponsor agreed 
to reconsider the timeline and will provide the Division with an updated timeline for 
submission, as requested. 
 
The Division also asked about any plans for an expanded access protocol, and the 
sponsor stated that the current priority is to focus on the planned Phase 3 study and 
there are no current plans for expanded access at this time.   
 
 
3.0 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
 
 
PROSPECTIVE ASSESSMENTS OF SUICIDAL IDEATION AND BEHAVIOR IN 
CLINICAL PROTOCOLS 
 
Treatment-emergent suicidal ideation and behavior have been identified as a concern 
for a number of drugs and drug classes.  For example, meta-analyses of clinical trial 
data for both antiepileptic drugs and antidepressants have demonstrated that these 
drugs increase the risk of suicidal ideation and behavior.  Spontaneous reports have led 
to similar concerns with other drugs as well, e.g., isotretinoin and other tretinoins, beta 
blockers, reserpine, smoking cessation drugs, and drugs for weight loss. Because of 
these concerns, a prospective assessment for suicidal ideation and behavior should be 
included, when appropriate and feasible, in clinical trials involving all drugs and 
biological products for neurological indications. These assessments should generally be 
included in every clinical protocol, at every visit, and in every phase of development, 
with the exception of single-dose trials in healthy volunteers.  These assessments 
should be conducted whether or not a particular product is known or suspected to be 
associated with treatment-emergent suicidal ideation and behavior.  A sponsor 
considering the omission of the assessment of suicidal ideation and behavior from a 
particular clinical protocol should prospectively discuss this omission with the Division of 
Neurology 1.   
 
DISCUSSION OF THE CONTENT OF A COMPLETE APPLICATION 
 

 The content of a complete application was discussed.  
 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 11 
 
 

 All applications are expected to include a comprehensive and readily 
located list of all clinical sites and manufacturing facilities included or 
referenced in the application. 

 
 We did not have a preliminary discussion on the need for a REMS, other 

risk management actions or the development of a Formal Communication 
Plan. 

 
PREA REQUIREMENTS  
 
Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) (21 U.S.C. 355c), all applications for 
new active ingredients (which includes new salts and new fixed combinations), new 
indications, new dosage forms, new dosing regimens, or new routes of administration 
are required to contain an assessment of the safety and effectiveness of the product for 
the claimed indication(s) in pediatric patients unless this requirement is waived, 
deferred, or inapplicable. 
 
Because this drug product for this indication has an orphan drug designation, you are 
exempt from these requirements. Please include a statement that confirms this finding, 
along with a reference to this communication, as part of the pediatric section (1.9 for 
eCTD submissions) of your application. If there are any changes to your development 
plans that would cause your application to trigger PREA, your exempt status would 
change. 
 
PRESCRIBING INFORMATION 
 
In your application, you must submit proposed prescribing information (PI) that 
conforms to the content and format regulations found at 21 CFR 201.56(a) and (d) and 
201.57 including the Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Rule (PLLR) (for applications 
submitted on or after June 30, 2015). As you develop your proposed PI, we encourage 
you to review the labeling review resources on the PLR Requirements for Prescribing 
Information5 and Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Final Rule6 websites, which include: 
 

 The Final Rule (Physician Labeling Rule) on the content and format of the PI for 
human drug and biological products.  

 The Final Rule (Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Rule) on the content and 
format of information related to pregnancy, lactation, and females and males of 
reproductive potential. 

 
5 https://www.fda.gov/drugs/laws-acts-and-rules/plr-requirements-prescribing-
information 
6 https://www.fda.gov/drugs/labeling/pregnancy-and-lactation-labeling-drugs-final-rule 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 12 
 
 

 Regulations and related guidance documents.  

 A sample tool illustrating the format for Highlights and Contents, and  

 The Selected Requirements for Prescribing Information (SRPI) − a checklist of 
important format items from labeling regulations and guidances.  

 FDA’s established pharmacologic class (EPC) text phrases for inclusion in the 
Highlights Indications and Usage heading. 

Pursuant to the PLLR, you should include the following information with your application 
to support the changes in the Pregnancy, Lactation, and Females and Males of 
Reproductive Potential subsections of labeling. The application should include a review 
and summary of the available published literature regarding the drug’s use in pregnant 
and lactating women and the effects of the drug on male and female fertility (include 
search parameters and a copy of each reference publication), a cumulative review and 
summary of relevant cases reported in your pharmacovigilance database (from the time 
of product development to present), a summary of drug utilization rates amongst 
females of reproductive potential (e.g., aged 15 to 44 years) calculated cumulatively 
since initial approval, and an interim report of an ongoing pregnancy registry or a final 
report on a closed pregnancy registry. If you believe the information is not applicable, 
provide justification. Otherwise, this information should be located in Module 1. Refer to 
the draft guidance for industry Pregnancy, Lactation, and Reproductive Potential: 
Labeling for Human Prescription Drug and Biological Products – Content and Format.  
 
Prior to submission of your proposed PI, use the SRPI checklist to ensure conformance 
with the format items in regulations and guidances.  
 
SUBMISSION FORMAT REQUIREMENTS 
 
The Electronic Common Technical Document (eCTD) is CDER and CBER’s standard 
format for electronic regulatory submissions. The following submission types: NDA, 
ANDA, BLA, Master File (except Type III) and Commercial INDs must be submitted in 
eCTD format. Submissions that do not adhere to the requirements stated in the eCTD 
Guidance will be subject to rejection. For more information please visit FDA.gov.7 
 
The FDA Electronic Submissions Gateway (ESG) is the central transmission point for 
sending information electronically to the FDA and enables the secure submission of 
regulatory information for review. Submissions less than 10 GB must be submitted via 
the ESG. For submissions that are greater than 10 GB, refer to the FDA technical 
specification Specification for Transmitting Electronic Submissions using eCTD 

 
7 http://www.fda.gov/ectd 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582






IND 129563 
Page 14 
 
 
Applications Submitted to CBER and CDER Questions and Answers10. Submit all 
related manufacturing and testing facilities in eCTD Module 3, including those proposed 
for commercial production and those used for product and manufacturing process 
development. 
 
Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) Requests  
 
The Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) requests that the items described in the 
draft guidance for industry, Standardized Format for Electronic Submission of NDA and 
BLA Content for the Planning of Bioresearch Monitoring (BIMO) Inspections for CDER 
Submissions, and the associated conformance guide, Bioresearch Monitoring Technical 
Conformance Guide Containing Technical Specifications, be provided to facilitate 
development of clinical investigator and sponsor/monitor/CRO inspection assignments, 
and the background packages that are sent with those assignments to the FDA ORA 
investigators who conduct those inspections. This information is requested for all major 
trials used to support safety and efficacy in the application (i.e., phase 2/3 pivotal trials). 
Please note that if the requested items are provided elsewhere in submission in the 
format described, the Applicant can describe location or provide a link to the requested 
information.  
 
Please refer to the draft guidance for industry Standardized Format for Electronic 
Submission of NDA and BLA Content for the Planning of Bioresearch Monitoring 
(BIMO) Inspections for CDER Submissions (February 2018) and the associated 
Bioresearch Monitoring Technical Conformance Guide Containing Technical 
Specifications.11 
 
 
4.0 ISSUES REQUIRING FURTHER DISCUSSION 
There were no issues requiring further discussion. 
 
 
5.0 ACTION ITEMS 
 

Action Item/Description Responsible Party Due Date 
Provide FDA with a Sponsor Early August 2021 
proposal for providing 
firewalled efficacy data 
while ensuring Phase 3 
study integrity  
Based on meeting Sponsor As soon as possible 
discussion, confirm 

 
10 https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/identification-
manufacturing-establishments-applications-submitted-cber-and-cder-questions-and 
11 https://www.fda.gov/media/85061/download 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 15 
 
 
timeline for NDA 
submission 

 
 
6.0 ATTACHMENTS AND HANDOUTS 
Attached is the Division’s “General Clinical Safety Requests” document and the Clinical 
Pharmacology Summary Aid” which were provided in the preliminary comments. A copy 
of the sponsor’s July 12, 2021, slide presentation is also attached. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 16 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 1   

DN1 Pre-BLA and Pre-NDA Meetings 
General Clinical Safety Requests 

 
Datasets: 
 
 Each individual subject should be assigned a single unique subject identifier across 

the entire application (e.g., including open label extensions of the trials). Include the 
unique subject identifier in the ISS and individual studies’ datasets. 

 Submit datasets for all Phase 1, Phase 2, Phase 3 studies (including open label 
extension studies), including the Phase 2 and 3 studies performed for indications 
other than the one proposed for this application.  

 
For additional guidance refer to the FDA webpage on Study Data Standards Resources. 
 
 
General Submission Contents: 
 
1. Follow the requirements noted in 21CFR 314.50 (d)(5)(vi), Summary of Safety 

Information and the Guideline for the Format and Content of the Clinical and 
Statistical Sections of an Application 

2. Provide an assessment of safety as per the FDA Guidance for Industry: 
Premarketing Risk Assessment 

3. Include a copy of each clinical study protocol as well as each amended protocol.  
Provide a list of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for each of the studies, including 
those introduced as part of protocol amendments.  Please submit all versions of the 
protocols (and Statistical Analysis Plan) and the date when changes were 
implemented.  Please ensure that a Summary of Changes for each version is 
included. 

4. In addition to the comprehensive analyses performed for the pivotal trials, the ISS 
should also comprehensively integrate safety analyses for all other study group 
pools for treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), deaths, serious adverse 
events, discontinuations for TEAEs, TEAEs of special interest, subgroups, and vital 
sign/laboratory/ECG measurements. 

5. Submit a table detailing all of the tables and figures featured in the clinical efficacy 
and safety sections of the application.  The table should contain the following: 
a. Title of the table or figure in the application 
b. A hyperlink to the location of the table or figure with page number 
c. A hyperlink to the SAS code used to create the table or figure (including 

information regarding the datasets that were used) 
6. Format the tables of the ISS according to examples in FDA’s Reviewer Guidance – 

Conducting a Clinical Safety Review of a New Product Application and Preparing a 
Report on the Review. 

7. Include active hyperlinks from the lists of references to the referenced article. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 17 
 
 
8. Provide DSMB meeting minutes (including any data/slides presented). For those 

meetings that were cancelled or meetings where no minutes were taken, please 
include a place holder for that meeting noting such and signed by a member of the 
clinical team. Please also ensure that these packages come with a table of contents 
and are bookmarked by date.   

9. Include information regarding important regulatory actions in other countries and 
foreign labeling (translated, if applicable). 

10. Submit an annotated version of the pre-BLA meeting minutes that include 
hyperlinks, when applicable, to the analysis and/or documents requested. 
 

 
Adverse events: 
 
1. Follow the coding rules for MedDRA in the ICH-endorsed “MedDRA Term Selection: 

Points to Consider” document accessible at MedDRA 
2. For each of the studies, the submitted datasets should contain both the verbatim 

terms and the MedDRA coding with all levels of the MedDRA hierarchy. For each 
adverse event, MedDRA coding should be provided for the primary MedDRA path. 

3. Provide a summary table of the original AE coding dictionaries that were used in 
each of the trials.  

4. The preparation of the adverse event dataset for the ISS should include MedDRA 
Preferred Terms from a single version of MedDRA. 

5. Ensure that all adverse events are presented, and not only events deemed “drug-
related.” 

6. Provide a table of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in ≥ 2% of subjects 
(after rounding) in any drug treated dose group (and greater than placebo) sorted by 
MedDRA SOC (in alphabetical order) and then by MedDRA Preferred Term.   

7. Provide a table which summarizes the outcomes of all pregnancies.  Provide a table 
which summarizes all known adverse events in subject offspring.  

 
 
Narratives and Case Report Forms (CRFs): 
 
1. Provide narratives and case report forms for deaths, adverse events leading to drug 

discontinuation, SAEs, pregnancies, and AEs of special interest. You should be 
prepared to supply any additional CRFs or narratives with a rapid turnaround upon 
request.  Narratives should be integrated. For subjects who had more than one 
event requiring a narrative (whether in the same trial or in the core study and an 
extension) present a single narrative (rather than separate narratives for the various 
events).   

2. Include a word file (and excel spreadsheet) that indicates those subjects for whom 
you submitted a case report form and/or narrative.  This file should include an 
indicator for whether each item was submitted and the reason why it was submitted 
along with hyperlinks to the narrative and CRF.   

3. Provide reports for any autopsies conducted during any of the studies. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 18 
 
 
4. Provide a line listing, narrative, and case report form for all subjects who fit the Hy’s 

Law laboratory criteria. 
5. Note that CRFs should include all clinical documents collected about the patient 

regardless of whether you label them “CRFs”, e.g., Medwatch/CIOMS forms, event 
fax coversheets, SAE or event worksheets, narrative worksheets, data queries, etc. 

6. Provide a tabular listing of all subjects with all discontinuations, sorted by reason.  
The table should include columns for study number, treatment group, unique subject 
ID, primary reason for drug or study discontinuation. For reasons including Lost to 
follow-up, Other, Physician/investigator decision, Withdrew consent, and Patient 
decision, provide more specific information regarding the discontinuation. The 
Division may want to request selected narratives/CRFs from some of these patients, 
but they do not need to be submitted at the time of the initial NDA/BLA submission.  

7. Narrative summaries should provide a complete synthesis of all available clinical 
data and an informed discussion of the case.  The narratives should be 
comprehensive enough for the reader to come to a reasonable conclusion regarding 
the subject and the adverse event.  The following items should be included (but not 
limited to): 

a) Patient age and gender 
b) Adverse event onset and stop dates (presented as relative Study Day number) 
c) Signs and symptoms related to the adverse event being discussed 
d) An assessment of the relationship of exposure duration to the development of 

the adverse event 
e) Pertinent medical history 
f) Concomitant medications with start dates relative to the adverse event 
g) Pertinent physical exam findings 
h) Any abnormal vital sign measurements  
i) Pertinent test results (e.g., lab data, ECG data, procedures, biopsy data, 

autopsy results) 
j) Discussion of the diagnosis as supported by available clinical data 
k) For events without a definitive diagnosis, a list of the differential diagnoses 
l) Treatment provided 
m) Re-challenge results (if performed) 
n) Outcomes and follow-up information 

 
 
Laboratory and Vital Sign Measurements: 
 
1. Refer to the following FDA webpage for the CDER position on use of SI units for lab 

tests:    
SI Units. 

2. Provide the normal reference ranges for every laboratory value. 
3. Clearly list the normal values, as well as the thresholds for analysis of outliers, for 

outlier analyses of laboratory data, vital signs, and ECG data. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 19 
 
 
4. When possible, use the latest version of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 

Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) for toxicity grades and 
shift analyses.  

5. Report the number and percentage of subjects with at least one post-treatment vital 
sign measurement meeting any of these criteria: 

• Systolic Blood Pressure: <90 mmHg, >140 mmHg, >160 mmHg 
• Diastolic Blood Pressure: <50 mmHg, >90 mmHg, >100 mmHg 
• Pulse Rate: <60 bpm, >100 bpm 
• Body Weight: decrease of ≥7% from baseline and increase of ≥7% from 
baseline 
• Temperature: >38.0 °C, <36.0 °C 
• Respiratory rate: <12 breaths/min, > 20 breaths/min 

6. Summarize the protocols for collecting ECG data. Summarize the frequency of post-
treatment QTc >450 ms, >480 ms, and >500 ms.  

 
 
Other requests:  
 
1. Patient profiles 

Submit individual patient profiles containing all laboratory and other study results in a 
single place for each patient.  Provide this information for patients who died, had a 
serious adverse event, discontinued from the trial due to an adverse event, or had a 
medically significant event for which a narrative is submitted.   Include all the 
information recorded for that patient, including but not limited to: 

a) Age 
b) Sex 
c) Dates of screening, randomization and starting therapy 
d) Whether the patient completed or did not complete the study, with dates and 

reason for withdrawal 
e) Adverse events (reported term, preferred term, start and stop date [with 

relative study day], seriousness, outcome, whether it resolved or not and 
action taken with drug) 

f) Prior medications and concomitant medications with dates of start and end 
g) Vital signs and laboratories, sorted by date, with reference ranges *  
h) Autopsy reports for all deaths.  (If an autopsy report is not available, explicitly 

state this.) 
i) Full reports for radiologic studies, ECG, MRI, pathology results, special 

studies and procedures with dates and reference ranges  
j) Provide relevant results obtained outside of clinical trial visits, including those 

obtained during hospitalization or emergency room visits, in each patient file. 
Also include baseline study results.  

k) For patients who had IND safety report(s), include dates when the initial and 
follow up safety reports were submitted.    

 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 20 
 
 

Create a PDF file for each patient and a table of contents with links to each 
assessment for each patient. 

  
2. Please submit for Division comments an example narrative from a patient who had 

more than one serious adverse event and participated in the controlled and 
extension studies prior to submitting your NDA.   

3. We request that you submit a sample integrated summary of safety datasets (with 
data definition file) for Division comments prior to submitting the NDA. This process 
could help to identify and resolve any potential issues of navigability or 
interpretability that could impact the review of your application.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 21 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 2: CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SUMMARY AID 
 
1. Goal 
 
The goal of this Aid is to facilitate the creation of an optimal Clinical Pharmacology 
Summary that summarizes the relevant Clinical Pharmacology findings and focuses 
sponsor and reviewer on the critical review issues of a submission. To guide sponsors 
in creating the Clinical Pharmacology Summary in NDA and BLA submissions the Aid 
provides a generic questionnaire that covers the entire Clinical Pharmacology realm. 
The aggregate answers provided by sponsors generate the desired Clinical 
Pharmacology Summary in NDA and BLA submissions. Where needed instructions are 
added to the questions to clarify what the answers should address. The questions and 
instructions included in this guide are not intended to be either inclusive of all or 
exclusive of any questions that specific reviews will address. A special Section of the 
Clinical Pharmacology Summary should identify and discuss the critical findings and 
issues and indicate how the unresolved issues are addressed.  
 
The Clinical Pharmacology Summary generated by sponsors is a stand-alone 
document, i.e. the answers to the questions including supporting evidence should be 
self-sufficient. Appropriate use of complementary tables and figures should be made. 
The sponsors’ answers to the questions should be annotated with links to the detailed 
information in the study reports and the raw data located in SAS transport files.  
 
 
2.  Question Based Review 
 
2.1         What are the in vitro and in vivo Clinical Pharmacology and 

Biopharmaceutics studies and the clinical studies with PK and/or PD 
information submitted in the NDA or BLA? 
 
All performed Clinical Pharmacology studies (in vitro studies with human 
biomaterials and in vivo studies) and clinical studies with PK and/or PD 
information along with report numbers should be tabulated. Study titles, 
objectives, treatments (single or multiple doses, size of the dose/interval), 
demographics (sex, age, race/ethnicity, body weight, creatinine clearance) and 
numbers of study participants should be listed. Studies whose results support 
the label should be marked. 

 
2.2    General Attributes of the Drug 
 
2.2.1 What are the highlights of the chemistry and physical-chemical  

properties of the drug substance and the formulation of the drug 
product? 

 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 22 
 
 

Provide background information on the drug substance (description, chemical 
name, molecular formula, molecular weight, structure), physical characteristics 
(Log D, solubility, pKa if applicable). Provide tabular information on the drug 
products, strengths, quantitative composition of ingredients and lot numbers for 
all formulations used in all in vivo studies and indicate corresponding study 
report numbers.  

  
2.2.2 What are the proposed mechanism of action and therapeutic indications? 
          
2.2.3 What are the proposed dosages and routes of administration? 
 
2.2.4      What drugs (substances, products) indicated for the same indication are 

approved in the US? 
 
2.3 General Clinical Pharmacology 
 
2.3.1 What are the design features of the clinical pharmacology and 

biopharmaceutics studies and the clinical studies used to support dosing 
or claims? 
Provide a tabular description of the designs, methodology and salient findings 
of the clinical pharmacology-, dose-ranging-, and pivotal studies and other 
clinical studies with PK and/or PD information in brief for each indication. 
Indicate duration of study, subjects’ demographics, dose regimens, endpoints 
(clinical/biomarkers) and study report numbers.   

 
2.3.2 What is the basis for selecting the response endpoints and how are they 

measured in clinical pharmacology studies? 
Provide a rationale for the selected clinical endpoints and biomarkers. For 
biomarkers indicate relationship to effectiveness and safety endpoints.  

 
2.3.3 Are the active moieties in plasma and clinically relevant tissues 

appropriately identified and measured to assess pharmacokinetic 
parameters and exposure response relationships? 
Indicate circulating active moieties and their plasma and-tissue concentration 
range after therapeutic doses of the drug of interest. Provide evidence that 
sensitivity of the assay method(s) used is (are) sufficient to determine apparent 
terminal t1/2 and AUC. 

 
2.4 Exposure-Response 
 
2.4.1 Does the exposure-response relationship support evidence of 

effectiveness? 
Describe briefly the method(s) used to determine the exposure-effectiveness 
relationship from randomized and well controlled trials (RCT) and other 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 23 
 
 

appropriate studies. Provide evidence that the exposure-response analysis 
supports evidence of effectiveness: e.g. a significant slope in the E-R 
relationship or a clear separation in effectiveness at different drug levels and 
placebo.   
 
Indicate whether the selected effectiveness endpoints are continuous, 
categorical or event driven variables. Indicate the number of pooled subjects 
studied and identify the trials they were enrolled in. Provide the results of the 
analysis of the dose- and/or concentration-effectiveness relationship. Indicate 
major covariates (e.g. age, body weight, sex, race/ethnicity, creatinine 
clearance, disease severity, genetic factors, hormonal status see also 2.6/2.7) 
impacting the exposure-effectiveness relationship. If not identifiable by 
commonly known covariates, evaluate different strategies, for example 
therapeutic drug monitoring, to maximize effectiveness for patients with a sub-
therapeutic exposure. 
 
Provide point estimate as well as a measure of the inter-subject variability for 
applicable. Indicate minimum and maximum effective dose- and concentration 
levels (major active moieties). Provide evidence that with the proposed 
regimens clinically meaningful effectiveness is maintained throughout the entire 
dose interval or alternatively provide evidence that maintenance of 
effectiveness during the entire dose interval is not important.  Indicate the 
magnitude of the effect at peak and trough concentrations with the tested dose 
regimens. Indicate steady-state trough and peak plasma concentrations of the 
major active moieties with the proposed dose regimens. Indicate whether AUC, 
Cmax or Cmin is more correlated with effectiveness. Show the distribution of 
the effect size for each dose/concentration level tested.  
 
Justify if an analysis of the exposure-effectiveness relationship was not done. 
 

2.4.2 What are the characteristics of the exposure-response relationships for 
safety? 
Describe briefly the method(s) used to determine the exposure-safety 
relationship. The analysis should focus on adverse events responsible for 
discontinuations and other drug related toxicities. Indicate whether the safety 
endpoints are continuous, categorical or event driven variables. Indicate the 
number of pooled subjects studied and identify the trials they were enrolled in. 
Provide the results of the analysis of the dose- and/or concentration-safety 
relationship. Indicate the major covariates (e.g. age, body weight, sex, 
race/ethnicity, creatinine clearance, disease severity, genetic factors, hormonal 
status) impacting the exposure-safety relationship. Provide point estimate as 
well as a measure of the inter-subject variability for relevant safety endpoints. 
Indicate magnitude and/or frequency of relevant adverse events at the tested 
dose/concentration levels. Indicate proportion of subjects with an excessive 
adverse response. Indicate whether AUC, Cmax or Cmin is more related to 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 24 
 
 

clinically relevant adverse effects. Add information on the maximum tolerated 
single and multiple dose regimens and the corresponding plasma levels [mean 
(SD) Cmax and AUC] of the circulating major active moieties.  
 
Justify if an analysis of the exposure-safety relationship was not done. 
 

2.4.3 Does this drug prolong QT/QTc Interval? 
Provide a brief description of the study design, regimens, population and data 
analysis used. Indicate whether plasma concentrations of the drug and the 
relevant metabolites and the positive control were measured. Give a rationale 
for the chosen supra-therapeutic dose regimen. Report the findings on the 
relationship between dose/concentration and QTc interval. Indicate point 
estimate and 95% confidence interval for the increase of the QTc- interval at 
the supra-therapeutic dose level. Discuss the relevance of the findings for 
safety. Provide support for the appropriateness of the selected supra-
therapeutic dose, if applicable. Indicate whether the pharmacokinetics of the 
drug of interest at supra-therapeutic levels is different from that at therapeutic 
levels. 

 
2.4.4 Is the dose and dosing regimen selected consistent with the known E-R 

relationship? 
Provide information on the criteria used to select the dose regimen (doses, 
dose intervals) used in the RCTs. Indicate the therapeutic dose and/or 
concentration range for the drug and provide evidence that the proposed dose 
regimens are optimal given the effectiveness/safety profile of the drug.  

 
2.5 What are the PK characteristics of the drug? 
 
2.5.1      What are the single and multiple dose PK parameters of parent drug and 

relevant metabolites in healthy adults? 
Briefly describe methods (two-stage and/or population approaches, 
compartment model dependent or-independent methods) in healthy subjects 
and in patients with the target disease used to determine the pharmacokinetic 
parameters of parent drug and relevant metabolites (pharmacologically active 
or impacting the exposure to parent drug or co-administered drugs). Provide 
mean, median (SD, CV%) pharmacokinetic parameters of parent drug and 
relevant metabolites after single doses and multiple doses at steady-state 
[Cmax, tmax, AUC, Cmax,ss, Cmin,ss, Cmax,ss/Cmin,ss, tmax,ss, AUC0-τ, 
CL/F, V/F and t1/2 (half-life determining accumulation factor), accumulation 
factor, fluctuation, time to steady-state]. Indicate how attainment of steady-
state is determined. Provide evidence for attainment of steady-state. 
 

2.5.2 How does the PK of the drug and its relevant metabolites in healthy  
              adults compare to that in patients with the target disease? 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 25 
 
 

Compare the pharmacokinetic parameters of the drug of interest and relevant 
metabolites in healthy subjects and patients with the target disease. Provide a 
rationale for observed significant differences between healthy subjects and 
patients with the target disease. 

 
2.5.3      What is the inter- and intra-subject variability of the PK parameters in 

volunteers and patients with the target disease? 
Provide mean/median (SD, coefficient of variation, range within 5% to 95% 
confidence interval bracket for concentrations) about mean AUC, Cmax, Cmin, 
CL/F and t1/2 of the parent drug and relevant metabolites after single doses 
and at steady-state. 
 

2.5.4 What are the characteristics of drug absorption? 
Indicate absolute and relative bioavailability, lag time, tmax, tmax,ss, Cmax, 
Cmax,ss and extent of systemic absorption of parent drug and relevant 
metabolites in healthy subjects and patients with the target disease. Indicate 
mean (SD) for these parameters. 
 

2.5.5 What are the characteristics of drug distribution? 
Indicate mean (SD) V/F for the drug of interest in healthy subjects and patients 
with target disease. Provide mean (SD) blood/ plasma ratio for parent drug in 
healthy subjects. Briefly describe method and pH- and temperature conditions 
used for determining plasma protein binding for parent drug and relevant 
metabolites. Provide mean (SD) values of the plasma protein binding of the 
drug of interest and relevant metabolites measured over the therapeutic range 
in healthy subjects and patients with target disease and special populations. 
 

2.5.6 Does the mass balance study suggest renal or hepatic as the major route 
of elimination? 
Present total, renal and fecal recoveries as percent of the administered total 
radioactivity. Indicate the percentage of radioactivity excreted as unchanged 
parent drug in urine and feces and the percent of radioactivity excreted as 
metabolites in urine and feces. 
 

2.5.7 What is the percentage of total radioactivity in plasma identified as parent 
drug and metabolites? 
Provide identification for ≥ 90% of the circulating total radioactivity (AUC). If 
multiple small peaks are present whose individual radioactivity is too small to 
be assignable to individual metabolites provide an estimate for their 
contribution to circulating total radioactivity.  

                 
2.5.8 What are the characteristics of drug metabolism? 

Present the metabolic scheme for the drug. Provide an estimate for the 
contribution of metabolism to the overall elimination of the drug of interest. 
Indicate mean (SD) values for the non-renal clearance in healthy subjects and 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 26 
 
 

patients with the target disease. Indicate whether active metabolites constitute 
major circulating moieties and if so how much they contribute to effectiveness 
and/or whether they affect safety.  
 

2.5.9 Is there evidence for excretion of parent drug and/or metabolites into 
bile?  
If appropriate provide in vitro and/or in vivo evidence suggesting that parent 
drug and/or metabolites are excreted into bile (in vitro: parent drug and/or 
metabolites are substrates of BCRP, in vivo: recovery of unchanged parent 
drug in mass balance- and absolute bioavailability studies suggest excretion 
into bile) 

 
2.5.10    Is there evidence for enterohepatic recirculation for parent and/or 

metabolites?  
Indicate whether there are secondary peaks and humps in the plasma 
concentration profile correlating with food intake. 

 
2.5.11 What are the characteristics of drug excretion in urine? 

Provide an estimate of the contribution of renal excretion to the overall 
elimination of parent drug in healthy volunteers. Present mean values (SD) for 
the renal clearance (mL/min or mL/min/1.73m2) in healthy subjects and in the 
target population. Using mean plasma protein binding and renal clearance 
values in healthy subjects estimate the respective contributions of glomerular 
filtration and net tubular secretion or re-absorption to renal clearance. 

            
2.5.12 Based on PK parameters, what is the degree of the proportionality of the 

dose-concentration relationship? 
Briefly describe the statistical methods used to determine the type of 
pharmacokinetics of the drug and its relevant metabolites (linearity, dose 
proportionality, non-linearity, time dependency) in healthy subjects and patients 
with the target disease. Identify the doses tested after single and multiple dose 
administrations of the drug of interest and the respective dose normalized 
mean (SD) Cmax and AUC values in healthy subjects and patients with the 
target disease. Indicate whether the kinetics of the drug is linear, dose 
proportionate or nonlinear within the therapeutic range. In case of nonlinear or 
time dependent pharmacokinetics provide information on the suspected 
mechanisms involved.   

 
2.5.13 How do the PK parameters change with time following chronic dosing? 

Indicate whether the mean ratio of AUC0-τ at steady-state to AUC after the first 
dose for the circulating major active moieties deviates statistically significantly 
from 1.0 in healthy subjects and patients with the target disease. Discuss the 
relevance of the findings and indicate whether an adjustment of the dose 
regimen is required. If the pharmacokinetics of the drug of interest changes 
with time provide a rationale for the underlying mechanism. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 27 
 
 
2.5.14    Is there evidence for a circadian rhythm of the PK? 

Indicate whether Cmax and Cmin of the parent drug after the morning and 
evening dose differ significantly. Discuss the relevance of the findings and 
whether an adjustment of the dose regimen is required for the drug of interest. 
Provide a rationale for the underlying mechanism for the observed circadian 
rhythm of the pharmacokinetics of the drug of interest. Indicate whether the 
dose regimens in the pivotal studies were adjusted for circadian rhythm. 

 
2.6 Intrinsic Factors 
 
2.6.1      What are the major intrinsic factors responsible for the inter-subject 

variability in exposure (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) in patients with the target 
disease and how much of the variability is explained by the identified 
covariates?                
Provide for all studies investigating the impact of the intrinsic factors (age, sex, 
body weight, ethnicity/race, renal and hepatic impairment) demographics and 
number of study subjects, and dose regimens. Provide summaries of the 
results and indicate intrinsic factors that impact significantly exposure and/or 
efficacy and safety of the drug of interest. Provide for each major identified 
covariate an estimate for its contribution to the inter-subject variability and 
indicate how much of the inter-subject variability is explained by the identified 
covariates. 
 
Provide mean (SD) parameters for AUC, Cmax, clearance, volume of 
distribution and t1/2 for pairs studied (e.g. elderly vs. young, male vs. female, 
normal body weight vs. obese, race/ethnicity(x) vs. race/ethnicity (y), mild vs. 
severe target disease)  
                

2.6.2      Based upon what is known about E-R relationships in the target 
population and their variability, what dosage regimen adjustments are 
recommended for each group? 
Characterize the populations (age, sex, body weight, ethnicity/race) used to 
determine the impact of each intrinsic factor on variability in exposure and 
exposure-response. Indicate for each intrinsic factor whether a dose 
adjustment (change of dose or dose interval or both)) is required or not and 
provide a rationale for either scenario.  

 
2.6.2.1   Severity of Disease State 
 
2.6.2.2   Sex 

 
2.6.2.3   Body Weight 
 
2.6.2.4   Elderly 
 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 28 
 
 
2.6.2.5 Pediatric Patients 

If available provide mean (SD, range) pharmacokinetic parameters, biomarker 
activity, effectiveness and safety in the pediatric sub-populations (neonates 
(birth-1 month), infants (1 month- 2 years), children (2-12 years) and 
adolescents (12- < 16 years) and define the target disease. If no information is 
available in the pediatric population indicate age groups to be investigated in 
future studies. Provide a summary stating the rationale for the studies 
proposed and the endpoints and age groups selected. Include a hyperlink to 
the development plan of the drug of interest in children. 
 

2.6.2.6   Race/Ethnicity 
 
2.6.2.7  Renal Impairment 

Characterize the demographics for each subgroup (normal renal function, mild, 
moderate and severe renal impairment, on and off dialysis). Indicate mean 
(SD, range) for creatinine clearance estimated by the Cockroft-Gaul- and 
MDRD equations for the stages of renal impairment investigated. Provide 
arithmetic mean (SD) AUC, Cmax and t1/2 of parent drug and relevant 
metabolites in the different sub-groups assessed by 2-stage or population PK 
approaches.  Show regressions including 90% confidence intervals of AUC, 
Cmax and CL/F on Clcr for parent drug and relevant metabolites. If a 
population approach is used provide evidence supporting that statistical power 
was sufficient to determine impact of creatinine clearance. 
 
Indicate mean (SD) for total and renal clearance of the drug in the different 
sub-groups and provide estimates of the contribution of glomerular filtration 
and net tubular secretion or re-absorption to the renal excretion of the drug of 
interest. Indicate whether plasma protein binding of the active moieties is 
significantly altered in renal impairment and whether the change in the 
unbound fraction is clinically relevant. Indicate whether a dose adjustment 
(dose or dose interval, or both) is required or not for each of the sub-groups of 
patients with impaired renal function and provide a rationale for either scenario. 
 

2.6.2.8   Hepatic Impairment 
Characterize the demographics for each subgroup (normal hepatic function, 
mild, moderate and severe hepatic impairment based on Child-Pugh scores). 
Provide information on arithmetic mean (SD) AUC, Cmax, tmax and t1/2 of 
parent drug and relevant metabolites in the different hepatic function sub-
groups assessed by two-stage or population PK approaches. Show 
regressions including 90% confidence intervals of Cmax, AUC or CL/F on the 
Child-Pugh score for parent drug and relevant metabolites. Indicate whether 
plasma protein binding of the active moieties is significantly altered in hepatic 
impairment and whether the change in the unbound fraction is clinically 
relevant. Indicate whether a dose adjustment is required or not for each of the 
subgroups of patients with impaired hepatic function and provide a rationale for 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 29 
 
 

either scenario. If a population approach is used provide evidence supporting 
that statistical power was sufficient to determine impact of Child-Pugh score. 

 
2.6.2.9   What pregnancy and lactation use information is available? 
 
2.6.3      Does genetic variation impact exposure and/or response? 

Describe the studies in which DNA samples have been collected. If no DNA 
samples were collected state so. Include a table with links to the studies in 
which DNA was analyzed and genomic/genetic information is reported. In the 
description of these studies include demographics, purpose of DNA analysis 
(effectiveness, safety, drug metabolism, rule in-out of patients, etc.), rationale 
for the analysis, procedures for bio-specimen sample collection and DNA 
isolation, genotyping methods, genotyping results in individual subjects, 
statistical procedures, genotype-phenotype association analysis and results, 
interpretation of results, conclusions. If genomic polymorphism impacts either 
exposure and/or response indicate the measures to be taken to safeguard 
efficacy and safety of the drug in subjects with varying genotypes. Indicate the 
contribution of genetic factors to inter-subject variability. 
   
 

2.6.4 Immunogenicity (NOT applicable to small molecule drugs) 
 

2.6.4.1   What is the incidence (rate) of the formation of the anti-product          
antibodies (APA), including the rate of pre-existing antibodies, the rate of 
APA formation during and after the treatment, time profiles and adequacy 
of the sampling schedule? 

 
2.6.4.2   Does the immunogenicity affect the PK and/or PD of the therapeutic 

protein? 
 
2.6.4.3   Do the anti-product antibodies have neutralizing activity? 
 
2.6.4.4   What is the impact of anti-product antibodies on clinical efficacy?  
 
2.6.4.5   What is the impact of anti-product antibodies on clinical safety? 

Provide information on the incidence of infusion-related reactions, 
hypersensitivity reactions, and cross-reactivity to endogenous counterparts.   

 
2.7 Extrinsic Factors 
 
2.7.1 Is there an in vitro basis to suspect in vivo drug-drug interactions? 

Summarize the results of the in vitro studies performed with the drug of interest 
as substrate, inhibitor or inducer of relevant CYP and non-CYP enzymes and 
transporters. Give rationale for why based on the in vitro results an interaction 
study in humans is required or is not required 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 30 
 
 
2.7.2 Is the drug a substrate of CYP enzymes?  

Briefly describe the methods used (specific chemicals/antibodies, human 
recombinant CYP enzymes, human microsomes). Indicate incubate, initial rate 
conditions, concentration range tested relative to Km, controls etc. Provide a 
summary of the results of the in vitro studies investigating the drug of interest 
as a substrate of CYP 450 and non-CYP 450 enzymes. Provide for each of the 
relevant enzymes a mean estimate for the % contribution to the metabolism of 
the drug of interest. Discuss the relevance of the in vitro findings for the drug of 
interest as a substrate for deciding which drug-drug interactions should be or 
need not be performed in humans. For each situation provide supporting 
evidence. 
 

2.7.3   Is the drug an inhibitor and/or an inducer of enzymes? 
Briefly describe the methods used (type and source of liver tissue, 
concentration range tested for the drug of interest as substrate, inhibitor and 
inducer, experimental conditions, pre-incubation, probe substrates, 
positive/negative controls.  Provide summary results of the in vitro studies with 
human liver tissues for the drug of interest as a potential inhibitor or inducer of 
enzymes. Indicate whether the drug is a reversible inhibitor (competitive, non-
competitive or un-competitive) or an irreversible inhibitor (mechanism based) 
and supportive evidence. Provide mean (SD) values for Ki, IC50 and Vmax for 
each relevant enzyme and probe substrate. Indicate the anticipated maximum 
total and unbound concentration of the drug of interest as inhibitor ([I]). Provide 
the mean (SD) % activity relative to the positive control for the drug of interest 
as inducer. Discuss the relevance of the in vitro findings for the drug of interest 
as an inhibitor or inducer for deciding which drug-drug interactions should be or 
need not be performed in vivo in humans. If appropriate use the [I]/Ki ratio as a 
means to assess the likelihood of an in vitro result to be clinically relevant. For 
each situation provide supporting evidence. 
 

2.7.4 Is the drug a substrate, an inhibitor and/or an inducer of transporter 
processes? 
See 2.7.2.2 and 2.7.2.3. The instructions for the interactions of the drug of 
interest as substrate, inhibitor or inducer of transporters are analogous to those 
for enzymes.  
 

2.7.5 Are there other metabolic/transporter pathways that may be important? 
 
2.7.6 What extrinsic factors influence exposure and/or response, and what is 

the impact of any differences in exposure on effectiveness or safety 
responses? 
Indicate extrinsic factors that impact significantly exposure and/or effectiveness 
and safety of the drug. Indicate extent of increase or decrease in exposure 
and/or response caused by extrinsic factors. State whether an adjustment of 
the dose is or is not required and provide supporting evidence for either case.     

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 31 
 
 

           
2.7.7 What are the drug-drug interactions? 

Provide a list of the drug-drug interaction studies (PK or PD based mechanism) 
performed and give a rationale for conducting the listed studies. Indicate the 
suspected mechanism responsible for the interaction. For each of the in vivo 
studies performed provide a rationale for the design selected (single or multiple 
dose regimens, randomized/non-randomized cross-over or parallel design for 
perpetrator and/or victim). 
 
a) Drug of interest is impacted by co-administered other drugs 
 
Provide information on the demographics of populations, number of subjects, 
dose levels, and design of the studies performed in humans. Justify the 
magnitude of the equivalence interval selected if it is greater than the default 
interval. Report t1/2, point estimates and 90% confidence intervals of the 
geometric mean ratios of AUC and Cmax for the drug of interest in the 
presence and absence of each of the co-administered drugs. Provide a 
summary statement on the drug interaction liability of the drugs as victim. 
Indicate whether a dose adjustment is required or not. In either case provide a 
rationale. Define the required adjusted dose regimens.  
 
b) Drug of interest impacts other co-administered drugs 
 
Provide information on the demographics of populations, number of subjects, 
dose levels, and design of the studies performed in humans. Justify the 
magnitude of the equivalence interval selected if it is greater than the default 
interval. Provide a summary statement on the drug interaction liability of the 
drug as a perpetrator. Report t1/2, point estimates and 90% confidence 
intervals of the geometric mean ratios of AUC and Cmax for each of the co-
administered drugs in the presence and absence of the drug of interest. 

 
2.7.8 Does the label specify co-administration of another drug? 
 
2.7.9 What other co-medications are likely to be administered to the target 

population? 
 
2.7.10 Is there a known mechanistic basis for pharmacodynamic drug-drug 

interactions? 
 
2.8  General Biopharmaceutics 

For all in vivo studies performed in this section indicate study design, 
demographics and number of subjects enrolled, and type, composition, 
strength and lot number of the formulations used. Provide summary results 
with estimates for mean and inter-subject variability on AUC and Cmax after 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 32 
 
 

single and multiple dose administration and peak to trough fluctuation after 
multiple dose administration.  

 
 
IR Product 
 
2.8.1 Based on the biopharmaceutic classification system principles, in what 

class is this drug and formulation? What solubility, permeability and 
dissolution data support this classification? 

 
2.8.2      How is the proposed to-be-marketed formulation linked to the clinical 

service formulation? 
 
2.8.2.1 What are the safety or effectiveness issues, if any, for BE studies that fail 

to meet the 90% CI using equivalence limits of 80-125%? 
 
2.8.2.2 If the formulation does not meet the standard criteria for bioequivalence, 

what clinical pharmacology and/or safety and efficacy data support the 
approval of the to-be-marketed product? 

 
2.8.3 What is the effect of food on the bioavailability of the drug when 

administered as solution or as drug product? 
Indicate composition and calories of the food administered, and length of the 
pre-dose fasting period. State whether the impact of food is on the drug 
substance or the inactive ingredients of the formulation. Indicate the clinical 
relevance of findings. Indicate the temporal relationship between drug intake 
and food intake in the pivotal studies. 

2.8.4 Was the bioequivalence of the different strengths of the to be marketed 
formulation tested? If so were the strengths bioequivalent or not?  

 
2.8.5 If unapproved products or altered approved products were used as    

active controls, how is BE to the to be marketed product demonstrated? 
What is the link between the unapproved/altered and to be marketed 
products? 

 
MR product (if an IR is already marketed) 
 
2.8.6   What is the bioavailability of the MR product relative to the approved IR 

product? How does the plasma concentration time profile of the MR 
formulation compare to that of the IR formulation after single and 
multiple doses? 
Indicate whether or not the pharmacokinetics of the drug of interest is linear, 
dose proportional or nonlinear after administration of the MR formulation. 
Summarize data on Cmax, AUC and Cmin of the IR and MR formulations after 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 33 
 
 

a single dose and multiple doses at steady-state. Provide information on the 
fluctuation factor at steady-state.  

 
2.8.7    What is evidence that MR formulation in vivo consistently shows claimed 

MR characteristics? 
 
2.8.8    What is evidence that MR formulation displays less variability in Cmax, 

AUC and Cmin than IR formulation? 
 
2.8.9    Does the MR product show dose dumping in vivo? 

Describe design, demographics and number of subjects participating in the 
studies performed to determine whether dose dumping occurs with the MR 
formulation when given in the fed state or when given together with alcohol. 
Present summaries of results. 
  

2.8.10  Does ethanol in vitro have a dose-dumping effect on the MR   product? 
Provide the results of the in vitro dissolution testing of the various strengths of 
the ER product in pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 media containing 0, 5, 10, 20 and 40% 
alcohol. Discuss any dose dumping observed. If an in vivo study was 
performed report the clinical relevance of the findings.  

 
2.8.11  Are the MR and IR products marketed simultaneously? 

If the intention is to market both the MR and IR products, indicate how patients 
are converted from the IR to the MR product and vice versa. 
 

2.8.12  If the NDA is for an MR formulation of an approved IR product without 
supportive safety and effectiveness studies, what dosing regimen 
changes are necessary, if any, in the presence or absence of a PKPD 
relationship? 

 
2.8.13  In the absence of effectiveness and safety data what data support the 

NDA for a MR formulation of an approved IR product?  
 
2.9 Analytical Section 
 
2.9.1 How are parent drug and relevant metabolites identified and what are the 

analytical methods used to measure them in plasma and other matrices?               
List all assays used and briefly describe the individual methods. 

 
2.9.2 Which metabolites have been selected for analysis and why? 
 
2.9.3 For all moieties measured, is free, bound, or total measured? 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 34 
 
 

Indicate whether free, bound or total (bound+unbound) concentrations of the 
drug of interest and relevant metabolites are measured and give a rationale for 
your selection.  
 

2.9.4  What bioanalytical methods are used to assess concentrations of   the 
measured moieties? 
Identify all studies that used a particular assay method. For each assay report 
indicate the corresponding assay validation report.  
 

2.9.5 What is the range of the standard curve? How does it relate to the 
requirements for clinical studies? What curve fitting techniques were 
used? 
For each method and analyte provide concentration range of calibration curve   
and indicate respective concentration range for relevant moieties with 
therapeutic regimens. Indicate fit type of the calibration curves. 
 

2.9.5.1  What are the lower and upper limits of quantitation? 
For each method and analyte indicate LLOD, LLOQ and ULOQ for undiluted 
and diluted samples. 
 

2.9.5.2 What are the accuracy, precision, and selectivity at these limits? 
For each method and analyte indicate inter-day and intra-day precision (CV%) 
and inter-day and intra-day accuracy (RE%).   
 

2.9.5.3   What is the sample stability under conditions used in the study? 
For all studies in which concentrations of the drug of interest and relevant 
metabolites were measured provide information on initiation date of study, date 
of last sample analyzed and total sample storage time. For each method and 
matrix provide information on the stability of the analytes, i.e. number of freeze-
thaw cycles, benchtop stability at room temperature and stability during long 
term storage at ≤ –20 C. 

 
2.9.5.4  What is the plan for the QC samples and for the reanalysis of the incurred 

samples? 
For each study, method and analyte indicate precision (CV%) and accuracy 
(%RE) using the QC samples measured alongside samples with unknown 
concentrations. Indicate the concentrations of the QC and incurred samples 
used. 
 

2.9.5.5  What evidence is available demonstrating that neither the assay of the 
drug on interest is impacted by co-administered other drugs and vice 
versa? 

 
Applicable to therapeutic proteins only 
 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



IND 129563 
Page 35 
 
 
2.9.5.6   What bioanalytical methods are used to assess therapeutic protein 

concentrations?  
Briefly describe the methods and summarize the assay performance. 

 
2.9.5.7   What bioanalytical methods are used to assess the formation of the anti-

product antibodies?   
Briefly describe the methods and assay performance including sensitivity, 
specificity, precision, cut point, interference and matrix, etc. 

 
2.9.5.8   What is the performance of the neutralizing assay(s)? 
 

4 Page(s) have been Withheld in Full as B4 (CCI/TS) immediately following this page 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4829582



Signature Page 1 of 1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------

TERESA J BURACCHIO
07/22/2021 11:17:21 AM

Reference ID: 4829582



CDER Breakthrough Therapy Designation Determination Review Template (BTDDRT)
IND/NDA/BLA # IND 129,563
Request Receipt Date 1/28/20
Product AMX0035 (fixed dose combination of sodium phenylburate [3gm] and 

tauroursodeoxycholic acid [1gm]) 
Indication Treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
Drug Class/Mechanism of See product description; mechanism(s) of action uncertain
Action
Sponsor Amylyx Pharmacueticals Inc. 
ODE/Division DN1/ON/CDER
Breakthrough Therapy 3/28/20
Request (BTDR) Goal Date 
(within 60 days of receipt) 

Note: This document must be uploaded into CDER’s electronic document archival system as a clinical review: 
REV-CLINICAL-24 (Breakthough Therapy Designation Determination) even if the review is attached to the 
MPC meeting minutes and will serve as the official primary Clinical Review for the Breakthrough Therapy 
Designation Request (BTDR). Link this review to the incoming BTDR. Note: Signatory Authority is the Division 
Director.

Section I: Provide the following information to determine if the BTDR can be denied without Medical 
Policy Council (MPC) review.

1. Briefly describe the indication for which the product is intended (Describe clearly and concisely since the 
wording will be used in the designation decision letter):

AMX0035 is a fixed dose combination (FDC) of sodium phenylbutyrate and tauroursodiol.  The product is being 
developed by Amylyx Pharmaceuticals LLC for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).

2. Are the data supporting the BTDR from trials/IND(s) which are on Clinical Hold?
YES  NO

3. Was the BTDR submitted to a PIND? YES  NO
If “Yes” do not review the BTDR. The sponsor must withdraw the BTDR. BTDR’s cannot be submitted to a PIND.

If 2 above is checked “Yes,” the BTDR can be denied without MPC review. Skip to number 5 for clearance and sign-
off.  If checked “No”, proceed with below:

4. Consideration of Breakthrough Therapy Criteria: 

a. Is the condition serious/life-threatening1)? YES  NO 

If 4a is checked “No,” the BTDR can be denied without MPC review. Skip to number 5 for clearance and sign-off.  If 
checked “Yes”, proceed with below:

1 For a definition of serious and life threatening see Guidance for Industry: “Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions––Drugs and 
Biologics” http://www fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM358301.pdf
1

Reference ID: 4576470



b. Are the clinical data used to support preliminary clinical evidence that the drug may demonstrate substantial 
improvement over existing therapies on 1 or more clinically significant endpoints adequate and sufficiently 
complete to permit a substantive review?  

 YES, the BTDR is adequate and sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review 
 Undetermined 
 NO, the BTDR is inadequate and not sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review; therefore, the 
request must be denied because (check one or more below):

i. Only animal/nonclinical data submitted as evidence
ii. Insufficient clinical data provided to evaluate the BTDR

(e.g. only high-level summary of data provided, insufficient information
 about the protocol[s])

iii. Uncontrolled clinical trial not interpretable because endpoints 
are not well-defined and the natural history of the disease is not
relentlessly progressive (e.g. multiple sclerosis, depression)

iv. Endpoint does not assess or is not plausibly related to a serious 
aspect of the disease (e.g., alopecia in cancer patients, erythema 
chronicum migrans in Lyme disease)

v. No or minimal clinically meaningful improvement as compared
to available therapy2/ historical experience (e.g., <5%
improvement in FEV1 in cystic fibrosis, best available
therapy changed by recent approval)

5. Provide below a brief description of the deficiencies for each box checked above in Section 4b: 

If 4b is checked “No”, BTDR can be denied without MPC review. Skip to number 6 for clearance and sign-off (Note: 
The Division always has the option of taking the request to the MPC for review if the MPC’s input is desired. If this is 
the case, proceed with BTDR review and complete Section II).  If the division feels MPC review is not required, send 
the completed BTDDRT to Miranda Raggio for review. Once reviewed, Miranda will notify the MPC Coordinator to 
remove the BTDR from the MPC calendar. If the BTDR is denied at the Division level without MPC review, the BTD 
Denial letter still must be cleared by Miranda Raggio, after division director and office director clearance.

If 4b is checked “Yes” or “Undetermined”, proceed with BTDR review and complete Section II, as MPC review is 
required.

6. Clearance and Sign-Off (no MPC review)

Deny Breakthrough Therapy Designation  

Reviewer Signature: {See appended electronic signature page}
Team Leader Signature: {See appended electronic signature page}
Division Director Signature: {See appended electronic signature page}
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
Section II: If the BTDR cannot be denied without MPC review in accordance with numbers 1-3 above, or 
if the Division is recommending that the BTDR be granted, provide the following additional information 
needed by the MPC to evaluate the BTDR.

7. A brief description of the drug, the drug’s mechanism of action (if known), the drug’s relation to existing 
therapy(ies), and any relevant regulatory history.   

Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cambridge, Mass) is developing AMX0035 to treat ALS.  AMX0035 is a combination 
of two molecules, sodium phenylbutyrate and tauroursodeoxycholic acid.  

2 For a definition of available therapy refer to Guidance for Industry: “Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions––Drugs and 
Biologics” http://www fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM358301.pdf
2

Reference ID: 4576470



  

Sodium phenylbutyrate is approved in the US as Buphenyl®, which is “indicated as adjunctive therapy in the chronic 
management of patients with urea cycle disorders…”  Tauroursodeoxycholic acid is not approved in the US, and it is 
used off-label in Europe to treat cholestatic conditions.  As regards to the possible mechanism(s) of action of these 
molecules in ALS, the sponsor contends that they target protein folding processes in the endoplasmic reticulum and 
also cellular processes leading to mitochondrial stress, which may be present in ALS.  The combination reduced 
neuronal death in nonclinical models.  The individual doses of the two drugs in AMX0035 are 3 gm of sodium 
phenylbutyrate and 1gm of tauroursodeoxycholic acid.

The regulatory history is as follows.
 PIND letter sent to sponsor on 3/21/16
 IND submitted 3/15/17, with the CENTAUR study in ALS proposed as the IND-opening study

o May Proceed letter sent to sponsor 8/19/17
 Orphan Designation granted 5/8/17
 Fast Track Requests were denied twice: 4/20/18 and 9/7/18
 CENTAUR SAP comments were made on 3/6/19.  

o Comments included that: “If there are deaths, then the joint rank analysis of function and survival 
should be the primary analysis.”

 CENTAUR topline results sent to FDA 1/10/20
 Type C Meeting planned for 3/12/20, with the objective stated by the sponsor as follows:

“The overall objective of this Type C meeting is to obtain concurrence from the Division that the 
information described or proposed in this briefing document will support the filing and approval 
of the forthcoming New Drug Application (NDA).”

8. Information related to endpoints used in the available clinical data: 

a. Describe the endpoints considered by the sponsor as supporting the BTDR and any other endpoints the sponsor 
plans to use in later trials. Specify if the endpoints are primary or secondary, and if they are surrogates.

The primary endpoint was the rate of decline to Week 24 in the ALS Functional Rating Scale–Revised (ALSFRS-
R) score in the mITT population [Definition of mITT: at least one dose of study drug and one post-baseline 
score].  

Secondary endpoints included: isometric muscle testing using the Accurate Testing of Limb Isometric Strength 
(ATLIS); measurement of Slow Vital Capacity (SVC); and survival.  

Other endpoints (which are biomarkers not accepted as surrogate endpoints) included: phosphorylated 
neurofilament heavy chain protein and PET imaging of a radiotracer that targets a marker of glial inflammation in 
a substudy.  

All endpoints were statistically analyzed using random slope shared intercept mixed models with a number of 
covariates.  Missing values were handled using the mixed model with repeated measures (MMRM).  

b. Describe the endpoint(s) that are accepted by the Division as clinically significant (outcome measures) for 
patients with the disease. 

The Division accepts a joint rank analysis of a functional rating scale score (e.g., the ALSFRS-R) and survival.  
Per the FDA’s 2019 ALS Guidance (“Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: Developing Drugs for Treatment”):

3

Reference ID: 4576470



“In general, effectiveness should be established by the demonstration of a treatment effect (e.g., less 
decline, stabilization, improvement) on function in daily activities as measured, for example, by the ALS 
Functional Rating Scale-Revised or similar scales. In general, in addition to the primary endpoint, 
sponsors should include assessments of various effectiveness outcomes in trials, including patient-
reported outcomes (PROs). For effective drugs, the results of these additional outcomes would be 
expected to be supportive (FDA ALS Guidance, 2019: section III B 2).”

- AND –

“Sponsors should characterize an effect on mortality in all ALS development programs because it is 
important to the consideration of the overall safety and effectiveness profiles. If patient function is 
intended to be assessed by the primary outcome, mortality should be integrated into the primary outcome 
by an analysis method that combines survival and function into a single overall measure, such as the joint 
rank test FDA ALS Guidnace, 2019: section III B 2).”

Assessments of muscle strength and respiratory function (e.g., vital capacity) are acceptable as secondary 
endpoints.

c. Describe any other biomarkers that the Division would consider likely to predict a clinical benefit for the 
proposed indication even if not yet a basis for accelerated approval.

There are no biomarkers that the Divison considers likely to predict a clinical benefit in ALS.

9. A brief description of available therapies, if any, including a table of the available Rx names, endpoint(s) 
used to establish efficacy, the magnitude of the treatment effects (including hazard ratio, if applicable), and the 
specific intended population. 

There are two FDA-approved treatments for ALS: riluzole ([Rilutek®]; approved in 1995); and edaravone 
([Radicava®]; approved in 2017).  The sections below present data that are derived from the Prescribing Information 
for each of these drugs.

Riluzole studies used to support marketing application

Riluzole showed a statistically significant reduction in time to tracheostomy or death in two randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled studies.  The description of these studies per the Rilutek Prescribing Information is as 
follows.

“The efficacy of RILUTEK as a treatment of ALS was established in two adequate and well-controlled trials in 
which the time to tracheostomy or death was longer for patients randomized to RILUTEK than for those 
randomized to placebo. Among the patients in whom treatment failed during the first study (tracheostomy or 
death) there was a difference between the treatment groups in median survival of approximately 90 days. 
Although the survival curves were not statistically significantly different when evaluated by the analysis specified 
in the study protocol (Logrank test p=0.12), the difference was found to be significant by another appropriate 
analysis (Wilcoxon test p=0.05). There was no statistically significant difference in mortality at the end of the 
study.

In the second study, although these survival curves were not statistically significantly different when evaluated by 
the analysis specified in the study protocol (Logrank test p = 0.076), the difference was found to be significant by 
another appropriate analysis (Wilcoxon test p = 0.05).  Although riluzole improved early survival in both studies, 
measures of muscle strength and neurological function did not show a benefit.”

4

Reference ID: 4576470



Edaravone study used to support marketing application

A single randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted to support the edaravone marketing 
application.  The results of this trial are described below per the edaravone prescribing information.

“The efficacy of RADICAVA for the treatment of ALS was established in a 6-month, randomized, placebo-
controlled, double-blind study conducted in Japanese patients with ALS who were living independently and met 
the following criteria at screening:

The study enrolled 69 patients in the RADICAVA arm and 68 in the placebo arm. Baseline characteristics were 
similar between these groups, with over 90% of patients in each group being treated with riluzole.

The primary efficacy endpoint was a comparison of the change between treatment arms in the ALSFRS-R total 
scores from baseline to Week 24. The ALSFRS-R scale consists of 12 questions that evaluate the fine motor, 
gross motor, bulbar, and respiratory function of patients with ALS (speech, salivation, swallowing, handwriting, 
cutting food, dressing/hygiene, turning in bed, walking, climbing stairs, dyspnea, orthopnea, and respiratory 
insufficiency). Each item is scored from 0-4, with higher scores representing greater functional ability. The 
decline in ALSFRS-R scores from baseline was significantly less in the RADICAVA-treated patients as 
compared to placebo (see Table).” 

10.  A brief description of any drugs being studied for the same indication, or very similar indication, that 
      requested breakthrough therapy designation3.  

(b) (4)





11.  Information related to the preliminary clinical evidence: 

a. Table of clinical trials supporting the BTDR (only include trials which were relevant to the designation 
determination decision), including study ID, phase, trial design, trial endpoints, treatment group(s), number of 
subjects enrolled in support of specific breakthrough indication, hazard ratio (if applicable), and trial results.  

A single clinical trial (called CENTAUR) was used to support this BTDR.  CENTAUR is a randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study that was conducted at 25 sites in the US.  137 subjects 
who met revised El Escorial criteria for ALS were enrolled into a 24-week treatment period in which there was a 

.
5

Reference ID: 4576470



2:1 randomization to either AMX0035, administered orally BID (n = 89), or placebo BID (n = 48).  Participants 
were allowed to take stable doses of riluzole, or any dose of edaravone at any time before or during the study, per 
investigator judgment. There was no randomized stratification by background therapy across the treatment arms. 

The primary endpoint in the CENTAUR study was rate of decline (slope) to Week 24 in the ALSFRS-R score in 
the mITT population (at least one dose of study drug and one post-baseline score).  Secondary endpoints included: 
isometric muscle testing using the Accurate Testing of Limb Isometric Strength (ATLIS); measurement of Slow 
Vital Capacity (SVC); and survival.  Other endpoints included phosphorylated neurofilament heavy chain protein 
and PET imaging of a radiotracer that targets a marker of glial inflammation (in a substudy).  The mITT population 
included all patients who received at least 1 dose of study medication and who had at least 1 post-baseline total 
ALSFRS-R score. All endpoints were statistically analyzed using random slope shared intercept mixed models 
with a number of covariates.  Missing values were handled using the mixed model with repeated measures 
(MMRM).  Secondary endpoints were analyzed hierarchically after the ALSFRS-R, with the ATLIS total score 
being analyzed first. 

For the primary endpoint, the rate of decline in the ALSFRS-R total score at Week 24 (2.3 points, favoring 
AMX0035) was statistically significantly (p = 0.034) less in the AMX0035 cohort compared to the placebo cohort.    
See the table below that shows this analysis of the ALSFRS-R.

It is noted that there are 5 patients reported as having died or having met death equivalent criteria who are included 
in this analysis. Death was not considered in the definition of the mITT population. There were 2 additional 
patients who died before their second visit and were not included in the mITT population, which brings the number 
of deaths to 7 (5 in the AMX0035 cohort and 2 in the placebo cohort).  

A joint rank analysis method was not used to account for the impact of deaths on the ALSFRS-R. As discussed 
above, that analysis is critical because missing data as a result of death are not missing at random.

For the secondary endpoints, the sponsor stated that the two most important secondary endpoints were the ATLIS 
score and the SVC score. See the tables below showing the results of statistical analyses of the ATLIS and SVC 
endpoints.  

6

Reference ID: 4576470



Regarding the ATLIS secondary endpoints, the ATLIS total score, which was hierarchically analyzed following 
the primary endpoint, did not demonstrate a statistically significant benefit over placebo (2.8% difference in 
strength favoring AMX0035; p = 0.11).  The ATLIS total score is comprised of a lower limb score and an upper 
limb score.  In the submission, the sponsor emphasized a nominally statistically significant result on the ATLIS 
upper score (4.3% difference in strength favoring AMX0035; p = 0.04).  This apparent difference may be non-
existent, because there was a baseline ATLIS total score imbalance that favored AMX0035 by 2.9%.  Additionally, 
because the first hierarchically analyzed secondary endpoint was negative, any statistical significance on all further 
analyses of secondary endpoints was nominal. Overall, there is no meaningful effect on muscle strength observed 
in the study, which questions the effect observed on the ALSFRS-R (primary endpoint).

Regarding the SVC endpoint analysis, the results numerically favored AMX0035 (66.2% predicted SVC for 
AMX0035 vs. 61.1% for placebo), but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.08). 

No other secondary endpoints showed a nominally significant benefit for AMX0035.  

The safety data from the CENTAUR study show safety and tolerability profiles in the two treatment cohorts that 
were either similar or were of no clinical concern.  There were five deaths in the AMX0035 cohort, consisting of: 
respiratory failure (n = 2), pulseless electrical activity, diverticulitis, and subdural hematoma.  There were two 
deaths from respiratory failure in the placebo cohort.  Other SAEs were more common in the placebo cohort, 
primarily due to respiratory failure. Remaining safety findings were unremarkable.

b.    Include any additional relevant information. 

It is not clear based on the information provided that the study has met its primary endpoint, because the primary 
analysis did not use a joint rank analysis of the ALSFRS-R and survival. There were seven deaths in the study, 
which make a joint rank analysis critical to understand the study results, as the occurrence of death creates 
functional data that are missing not at random, or the anomalous result that death appears to be a better outcome 
than a lower ALSFRS-R score. The sponsor was informed of the need to use a joint rank analysis in a PIND 
meeting in 2016, before the conduct of the CENTAUR study. This was also communicated in email advice on the 
SAP in 2019. Instead, the primary endpoint analysis conducted by the sponsor consisted solely of a slope analysis 
of the ALSFRS-R. [Of note, the sponsor communicated a statistically significant result for the joint rank analysis 
during a type C meeting held during this BT designation request review period].

Critically, the study does not provide clear evidence that AMX0035 addresses an unmet medical. Specifically, the 
study does not provide evidence of superiority over both approved therapies for ALS, or of an add-on effect of 
AMX0035 over both approved therapies. In the CENTAUR study, a mix of background therapies was allowed (but 
not required), to which either placebo or AMX0035 was added. As a result, there were subjects on no approved 
treatment; subjects on riluzole treatment; subjects on edaravone treatment; and subjects on riluzole plus edaravone 
treatment. In addition, randomization was not stratified on the basis of background therapy.  Moreover, subjects 
were allowed to alter their use and/or dose of edaravone during the treatment period, and hence there was no stable 
dosing with edaravone.  The sponsor has not provided post-baseline on the number of patients who started 
edaravone after the start of the study and how these these patients allocated across the treatment arms. This is 

7

Reference ID: 4576470



critical to understanding riluzole and edaravone subgroup effects. Consequently, it is not possible to determine if 
there is benefit of AMX0035 over available therapy for ALS. 

The effect size observed on the ALSFRS-R is similar to that seen with approved drugs (i.e., no across-study 
suggestion on an effect larger than that of approved drugs).

12. Division’s recommendation and rationale (pre-MPC review):
 GRANT:

Provide brief summary of rationale for granting: 

Note, if the substantial improvement is not obvious, or is based on surrogate/pharmacodynamic endpoint data rather than 
clinical data, explain further.

            DENY: 

Provide brief summary of rationale for denial:

The Division recommends denial of the BTDR for the following reasons: 

There is no clear evidence suggesting that the drug may offer a meaningful benefit over existing therapies. The 
sponsor has not provided post-baseline on the number of patients who started edaravone after the start of the study 
and how these these patients allocated across the treatment arms. This is critical to understanding riluzole and 
edaravone subgroup effects.

13.   Division’s next steps and sponsor’s plan for future development:

a. If recommendation is to grant the request, explain next steps and how the Division would advise the sponsor (for 
example, plans for phase 3, considerations for manufacturing and companion diagnostics, considerations for 
accelerated approval, recommending expanded access program):  

b. If recommendation is to deny the request and the treatment looks promising, explain how the Division would 
advise the sponsor regarding subsequent development, including what would be needed for the Division to 
reconsider a breakthrough therapy designation:

The sponsor should conduct a second study to provide independent substantiation of effectiveness (assuming 
proper analyses of the CENTAUR study confirm a drug benefit). 

14. List references, if any: 

15. Is the Division requesting a virtual MPC meeting via email in lieu of a face-to-face meeting? YES    NO 

16. Clearance and Sign-Off (after MPC review):

Grant Breakthrough Therapy Designation  
Deny Breakthrough Therapy Designation

Reviewer Signature: {See appended electronic signature page}
8

Reference ID: 4576470



Team Leader Signature: {See appended electronic signature page}
Division Director Signature: {See appended electronic signature page}

Revised 3/18/19/M. Raggio

9

Reference ID: 4576470



Signature Page 1 of 1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------

DAVID HOSFORD
03/18/2020 07:00:27 AM

TERESA J BURACCHIO
03/18/2020 07:03:02 AM

ERIC P BASTINGS
03/18/2020 07:12:35 AM

Reference ID: 4576470






 
 

MEMORANDUM OF MEETING MINUTES 
 

Meeting Type: B 
Meeting Category: Pre-NDA 
Meeting Date and Time: March 11, 2020 1:00PM – 2:00PM Eastern Standard Time 
Meeting Location: Teleconference 
Application Number: 129563 
Product Name: AMX0035 
Indication: Treatment of patients with ALS 
Sponsor Name:  Amylyx Pharmaceutical, Inc. 
 
Meeting Chair: Julia Pinto, PhD  
Meeting Recorder: LCDR Marquita Burnett, MPH 
 
FDA ATTENDEES 
Julia Pinto, PhD   Branch Chief, Division of Neurology I  
Martha Heimann, PhD  ATL, Division of Neurology I 
Sharon Kelly, PhD   Reviewer, Drug Substance 
Ramesh Dandu, PhD  Reviewer, OPMA 
Yong Hu, PhD   Team Lead, OPMA 
Ta-Chen Wu, PhD   Team Lead, Biopharmaceutics 
Marquita Burnett, MPH  RBPM, OPRO 
 
SPONSOR ATTENDEES 

(b) (4)

Joshua Cohen    CEO and co-founder, Amylyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
Justin Klee     President and co-founder, Amylyx Pharmaceuticals 

Inc. 
Patrick Yeramian, MD, PhD  Chief Medical Officer, Amylyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. 

(b) (4)

 
1.0 BACKGROUND 
 
On January 2, 2020, Amylyx Pharmaceutical, Inc. submitted a type B meeting request. 
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the CMC components of a forthcoming NDA. 
January 14, 2020, the FDA Office of Pharmaceutical Quality (OPQ) granted a 
teleconference meeting for March 11, 2020. 
 
FDA sent Preliminary Comments to Amylyx Pharmaceutical, Inc. on March 4, 2020. 
 

8 Page(s) have been Withheld in Full as b4 (CCI/TS) immediately following this page

 

Reference ID: 4589415



IND 129563 
Page 10 
 

(b) (4)

Additional Comments 
Provide summary information for all drug product formulations and batches used during 
development in the Pharmaceutical Development Section (Module 3.2.P.2.2). The 
information for each formulation should include qualitative and quantitative composition, 
batch numbers and batch scale, manufacturing site, and use(s), e.g., clinical efficacy, 
pharmacokinetics, or safety studies, nonclinical studies (if applicable), stability. 
 
Sponsor Response to Additional Comments 
Sponsor understands the Agency comments and no further clarification is needed. 
Sponsor will provide summary information for all drug product formulations and batches 
used during development in NDA Module 3.2.P.2.2 as requested. 
 
3.0 SECURE EMAIL 
 
Secure email is required for all email communications from FDA when confidential 
information (e.g., trade secrets, manufacturing, or patient information) is included in the 
message. To receive email communications from FDA that include confidential 
information (e.g., information requests, labeling revisions, courtesy copies of letters), 
you must establish secure email. To establish secure email with FDA, send an email 
request to SecureEmail@fda.hhs.gov. Please note that secure email may not be used 
for formal regulatory submissions to applications (except for 7-day safety reports for 
INDs not in eCTD format). 
 
4.0 ATTACHMENTS AND HANDOUTS 
 
 

8 Page(s) have been Withheld in Full as b4 (CCI/TS) immediately following this page

U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
Silver Spring, MD 20993 
www.fda.gov 

Reference ID: 4589415



Signature Page 1 of 1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------

JULIA C PINTO
04/09/2020 02:08:48 PM

Reference ID: 4589415