FDA Briefing Document 
 

NDA# 216660 
Drug Name: AMX0035/ sodium phenylbutyrate (PB)  

and taurursodiol (TURSO) 
Applicant: Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory 

Committee (PCNS) Meeting 
September 7, 2022 

Division of Neurology 1 
Office of Neuroscience 

Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
 

 
 

DISCLAIMER STATEMENT 
The attached package contains background information prepared by the Applicant and the Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) for the panel members of the Advisory Committee. The 
background package often contains assessments and/or conclusions and recommendations 
written by individual FDA reviewers. Such conclusions and recommendations do not necessarily 
represent the final position of the individual reviewers, nor do they necessarily represent the 
final position of the Review Division or Office.  We have brought the drug AMX3005 to this 
Advisory Committee in order to gain the Committee’s insights and opinions, and the background 
package may not include all issues relevant to the final regulatory recommendation and instead 
is intended to focus on issues identified by the Agency for discussion by the Advisory 
Committee. The FDA will not issue a final determination on the issues at hand until input from 
the Advisory Committee process has been considered and all reviews have been finalized.  The 
final determination may be affected by issues not discussed at the Advisory Committee meeting. 
  

1 
 



Table of Contents 
 
Table of Contents ..................................................................................................................................... 2 

Table of Tables ..................................................................................................................................... 3 
Table of Figures .................................................................................................................................... 4 
List of Abbreviations ........................................................................................................................... 5 

1 INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................................ 6 
1.1 Applicant Proposed Indication ............................................................................................. 6 
1.2 Purpose of the Meeting .......................................................................................................... 6 
1.3 Draft Points to Consider ......................................................................................................... 6 

2 BACKGROUND ................................................................................................................................. 6 
2.1 Summary of PCNS AC meeting on March 30, 2022 ......................................................... 7 

3 MAJOR AMENDMENT ..................................................................................................................... 8 
3.1 New information submitted as confirmatory evidence .................................................. 8 
3.2 Responder Analysis based on the ALSFRS-R of the proportion of patients in the 
original trial who had an unusually strong response ................................................................. 8 
3.3 Randomized, long-term overall survival (OS) information that highlight a critical 
and complementary finding to the primary outcome and analyses ..................................... 11 
3.4 Mechanistic Evidence for Impact on Neurodegeneration and Neuroinflammation 
in CSF of a Related Disease Population ...................................................................................... 15 

4 ADDITIONAL REGULATORY BACKGROUND ......................................................................... 17 
4.1 Regulatory pathways to approval ...................................................................................... 17 
4.2 Unmet medical need .............................................................................................................. 20 
4.3 Regulatory flexibility ............................................................................................................. 20 
4.4 History of regulatory flexibility in ALS ............................................................................. 21 
4.5 Ongoing Phase 3 trial............................................................................................................ 22 
4.6 Expanded Access .................................................................................................................. 23 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

2 
 



Table of Tables 
 
Table 1: Change from Baseline in CSF Biomarkers after 24 Weeks in the PEGASUS study ..... 15 
 
 

3 
 



Table of Figures 
 
Figure 1: CENTAUR ALSFRS-R Individual Response by Treatment Group (mITT population) ... 9 
Figure 2: Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model Results .................................................. 13 
  
 

4 
 



List of Abbreviations 
Abbreviation Definition 
AC Advisory Committee 
AD Alzheimer’s disease 
ALS Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 
ALSFRS-R ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised 
CSF Cerebrospinal fluid 
ENCALS European Network for the Cure of ALS 
ER Endoplasmic reticulum 
FDA Food and Drug Administration 
HR Hazard ratio 
ITT Intention to treat 
MMRM Mixed measures 
MRI Magnetic resonance imaging 
NDA New drug application 
nFL Neurofilament light chain 
OLE Open-label extension 
OS Overall survival 
PET Positron emission tomography  
RPSFTM Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model 
SVC Slow vital capacity 

  

5 
 



 

1 INTRODUCTION 
   
This briefing document discusses updates to the information supporting the marketing 
application of AMX0035 for the treatment of ALS. 
 

1.1   Applicant Proposed Indication 
 
Proposed indication: AMX0035 is indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS).  
 

1.2  Purpose of the Meeting 
 

We are reconvening the committee to continue discussion of the application in the 
context of the additional analyses and data submitted by the Applicant. 
 

1.3 Draft Points to Consider 
 
Consider the strength of the currently available data regarding effectiveness, to include 
the new information submitted and the information presented at the prior AC meeting, in 
the context of the unmet need in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the status of the 
ongoing Phase 3 trial, and the seriousness of ALS. 
 

2    BACKGROUND 
 

The Peripheral and Central Nervous System (PCNS) Drugs Advisory Committee (AC) 
met on March 30, 2002, to discuss whether the data submitted by the Applicant is 
adequate to establish the effectiveness for AMX0035 in the treatment of amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS). At this prior meeting, following discussion, four committee 
members voted “Yes” (indicating that they felt the data supported the effectiveness of 
AMX0035 for ALS), and six members voted “No” (indicating that they did not feel that 
the data supported the effectiveness of AMX0035 in ALS).  
Following the AC meeting, the Applicant submitted additional analyses of the survival 
data from the CENTAUR study and its open-label extension, along with biomarker 
results from a recently completed Phase 2 study of AMX0035 in Alzheimer’s disease. 
The Applicant informed the Agency that the data and analyses in the new submission 
were intended to contribute to the confirmatory evidence to accompany the primary 
result of the CENTAUR study.  As discussed with the committee previously, one 

6 
 



successful study accompanied by confirmatory evidence may be an acceptable 
approach to the provision of the substantial evidence of effectiveness required for 
marketing approval. These additional analyses and new data constituted a major 
amendment to the application, which extended the review timeline by 3 months to allow 
for adequate consideration of this new information. 
These analyses contained no new data from the CENTAUR study or its open-label 
extension; the submission consisted of new analyses of previously submitted survival 
data. Additionally, the Applicant provided biomarker data from the Alzheimer’s disease 
study to show the effects of AMX0035 on markers of neurodegeneration in another 
neurodegenerative disease.  
We are reconvening the committee to continue discussion of the application in the 
context of the additional analyses and data submitted by the Applicant. Recognizing the 
substantial unmet medical need in ALS, as exists for so many of the devastating 
neurological diseases for which treatments are desperately needed, we feel that it is 
important that the committee is afforded the opportunity to consider this new 
information, along with the information presented at the prior AC meeting, in that 
context. 
 
2.1 Summary of PCNS AC meeting on March 30, 2022 
 
Following is a brief summary of the presentations and discussions from the previous AC 
meeting on March 30, 2022.1 
To support a finding of substantial evidence of effectiveness, the Applicant submitted 
data from a single double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 Study (AMX3500, also titled 
CENTAUR) in 137 patients with ALS. The Applicant reported a statistically significant 
result on the primary endpoint of the slope of the ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised 
(ALSFRS-R) change at 24 weeks (2.32-point difference at 24 weeks, p=0.034). The 
ALSFRS-R is an acceptable functional endpoint for a clinical trial in ALS; however, FDA 
raised concerns with the statistical analysis methodology which did not appropriately 
account for deaths that occurred during the study. Additionally, FDA noted that the 
prespecified statistical result was not exceptionally persuasive and there were analytical 
and interpretative issues associated with its consideration. FDA expressed concerns 
that the data may not be adequate to serve as a single study capable of independently 
providing substantial evidence of effectiveness.  

 
1 Meeting materials and transcripts from the March 30, 2022, PCNS advisory committee meeting are available 
online.  
https://www.fda.gov/advisory-committees/peripheral-and-central-nervous-system-drugs-advisory-
committee/updated-meeting-time-and-open-public-hearing-time-march-30-2022-meeting-peripheral-and-
central#event-materials 

7 
 



The Applicant also submitted data from an open-label extension study (AMX3500OLE) 
and reported findings of a survival benefit in patients who initially received AMX0035 
compared to those patients who originally received placebo in the CENTAUR study. 
FDA noted concerns about the interpretability of the survival benefit given the large 
number of dropouts in the open-label extension period and baseline imbalances 
between the populations.   
FDA had advised the Applicant prior to submission of its marketing application that an 
additional Phase 3 study appeared necessary to confirm the findings discussed above.  
The Applicant has an ongoing Phase 3 study in 600 patients with ALS worldwide. The 
study has currently enrolled over 50% of the proposed study population and is expected 
to complete in late 2023 to early 2024.   
The committee was asked to vote on the following question: 
“Do the data from the single randomized, controlled trial and the open-label extension 
study establish a conclusion that sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol is effective in the 
treatment of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)?”   
Four members voted “Yes” and six members voted “No”. There were no abstentions. All 
members who voted expressed similar sentiments that the decision was difficult.  
 

3 MAJOR AMENDMENT 
 

3.1  New information submitted as confirmatory evidence 
 
The Applicant acknowledged limitations to the CENTAUR study that may impact its 
ability to stand alone as a single study to demonstrate substantial evidence of 
effectiveness and submitted the following information as potential confirmatory evidence 
to support the treatment benefit seen in the CENTAUR study.  
As previously noted, CENTAUR was a 137 participant, randomized, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind study in patients with ALS that met its prespecified primary outcome, a 
statistically significant change on the slope of the ALSFRS-R at 24 weeks (2.32-point 
difference at 24 weeks, p=0.034). The Applicant has provided additional analyses as 
confirmatory evidence in an effort to support the findings in the CENTAUR study. 
 

3.2  Responder Analysis based on the ALSFRS-R of the proportion of patients 
in the original trial who had an unusually strong response 
 

The first additional analysis is an individual responder analysis that uses participants as 
their own controls and compares the response rate in the AMX0035 group to the 
response rate in the placebo group. The Applicant conducted this post hoc analysis to 

8 
 



compare the progression rate of individual subjects during the study to their own 
progression rates prior to entering the study as independent confirmatory evidence of 
individual effect of the treatment. This individual responder analysis uses participants as 
their own controls, and the Applicant believes that it may be less affected by any 
baseline differences between groups.  
To conduct this analysis, the Applicant calculated the number of patients within each 
study arm that had a slower rate of progression during the study at Week 18 compared 
to their pre-baseline progression rate (pre-study slope).  To calculate the pre-study 
slope, the Applicant calculated the points lost on ALSFRS-R divided by months since 
ALS symptom onset at the baseline visit. Responders were defined as those patients 
whose actual rate of change during the study (at Week 18) was less than their own pre-
baseline progression rate. Non-responders were defined as those whose actual rate of 
progression was greater than or equal to their own pre-baseline progression rate, 
patients who dropped out of the study prior to Week 12, and patients who died prior to 
Week 18.  The Applicant states that Week 18 data was chosen for this analysis to 
minimize the extent of missing data due to patient drop-out but is also a time point at 
which response to treatment would be evident. 

 
The Applicant reports that an individual response was observed in a greater proportion 
of patients receiving AMX0035 (41%; 95% CI 31-52%) vs placebo (19%; 95% CI: 8-
30%), odds ratio 3.06, p=0.0076 (Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1: CENTAUR ALSFRS-R Individual Response by Treatment Group (mITT 
population) 

 
 
 

9 
 



FDA Position: 
This post hoc analysis is highly correlated with the primary analysis. Both change from 
baseline slope and pre-study slope were used in the primary analysis; thus, this is not 
independent data. Therefore, it does not appear that this data can be considered 
independent confirmatory evidence as it uses the same data as the primary analysis. 
Also, notwithstanding the Applicant’s explanation, it is unclear why the Applicant has 
chosen to compare the treatment effect at Week 18, rather than Week 24 (the primary 
analysis endpoint). We note that the effect size on the primary endpoint was larger at 
Week 18 than Week 24.  
Additionally, the Applicant claims that using participants as their own control may 
provide independent evidence of effectiveness; however, this analysis doesn’t 
completely use participants as their own controls. The analysis is still a comparison 
between groups, comparing the response rate of patients receiving treatment to the 
response rate of patients receiving placebo. A true within-patient analysis that uses 
patients as their own control should calculate a treatment difference for each patient 
enrolled in the study; this is not possible for patients assigned placebo in this study 
design, and thus, is not an independent analysis from the primary analysis.  Additional 
concerns with this analysis include: 

- The pre-study slope was not directly measured and was calculated based on 
retrospectively collected data.  
 

o The variability of the change in slope may not be constant, because 
“delFS” depends on time from symptom onset, which varies widely across 
patients and the mean time from symptom onset of 59 weeks is 
significantly longer than the double-blind follow-up of 18 weeks considered 
in this analysis. 

o Pre-randomization slope is based on a baseline measurement/presumed 
score of 48 (normal) at disease onset. It is unlikely that patients would 
have a maximum score at the time of diagnosis because they would have 
signs and symptoms of ALS that prompted the work-up and subsequent 
diagnosis.  

o Linearity seems questionable for the pre-randomization slope because this 
slope is calculated over a period of up to 608 days, which is much longer 
than the 24 weeks of the primary efficacy study, for which the prior review 
showed linearity may not hold.  

o There is no way to check linearity of the pre-randomization slope. 
 

- There is post-baseline starting of ALS medications, more in the drug arm, which 
could confound this analysis. 
 

Therefore, these data appear limited in their ability to provide independent 
substantiation for the observed effect on [the primary endpoint. 

 
 

10 
 



3.3  Randomized, long-term overall survival (OS) information that highlight a 
critical and complementary finding to the primary outcome and analyses 
 
The Applicant contends that survival analyses from CENTAUR and the OLE can 
also serve as confirmatory evidence for the effectiveness of AMX0035 in ALS, 
given that death is an objective assessment.   
 
The Applicant again presented the ITT Overall Survival (OS) in the OLE as of 
March 1, 2021, the specified last day of the open-label treatment extension. This 
analysis is the same analysis previously submitted to the NDA and discussed 
with the committee.   
 
CENTAUR included a double-blind treatment period for 24 weeks. After that, all 
patients were given the option to enroll in an open-label, long-term extension 
study to evaluate long-term safety and efficacy outcomes, including survival. The 
Applicant notes that OS is not affected by drop-outs, since vital status was able 
to be collected in all randomized patients but one (136 out of 137 patients 
originally enrolled in CENTAUR). The Applicant also reports that patients and 
investigators remained blinded to the assigned treatment in the randomized 
phase throughout the open-label extension study.   
 
For ITT participants, there was a nominally significant overall survival benefit 
(HR=0.64) with longer median OS (23.5 months) observed in patients 
randomized to AMX0035 than the median OS of patients randomized to placebo 
(18.7 months) for a difference of 4.8 months. This analysis was reported and 
reviewed during the initial NDA submission and discussed at the prior AC 
meeting.  
 
However, the Applicant now indicates that because the majority of placebo 
patients (71%) crossed over into the OLE and received AMX0035, the ITT overall 
survival does not account for treatment crossover and may underestimate the 
survival benefit of the drug.  
 
Therefore, two post hoc sensitivity analyses are provided to address this 
potential crossover effect and are presented below. 
  

1) Using Natural History data to estimate benchmark survival time as the 
control 

2) Using Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model (RPSFTM) 
 

1) Survival prediction algorithm created from natural history data 
 

The first sensitivity analysis predicts overall survival time from baseline 
prognostic factors created using data from more than 10,000 people with ALS 
from 14 specialized ALS centers across Europe (ENCALS survival prediction 
model). The Applicant worked with the originators of this survival model to 

11 
 



produce survival predictions for each individual participant in CENTAUR. They 
calculated a Risk Profile for each subject and translated it to absolute survival 
probabilities based on the ENCALS survival prediction model.  
Per the Applicant, the AMX0035 and placebo groups had similar risk profiles and 
similar predicted survival at baseline, suggesting that the groups were well 
balanced at baseline on the commonly known prognostic factors.  
The Applicant’s analysis shows that the median OS in the ITT AMX0035 
treatment arm (N=89, OS=23.5 months) showed a prolongation of median OS of 
9.9 months versus the ENCALS predicted treatment naïve median survival (13.6 
months model predicted survival, p <0.0001).  This analysis compares the 
treatment arm with a treatment naïve benchmark so does not have the concern 
regarding crossover of the placebo group.  
 
FDA Position: 
There are a variety of concerns about the reliability of this analysis. Notably, this 
is a non-randomized comparison to an external control that is subject to potential 
confounding due to differences between the AMX0035-treated patients and the 
external controls in unmeasured prognostic factors, measured prognostic factors 
not accurately measured or captured by the survival prediction model, and/or 
supportive care/interventions. FDA also notes that patients in the natural history 
database were not in a clinical trial which could also lead to differences between 
the groups. Furthermore, there was no pre-specified protocol and/or analysis 
plan for this comparison and post hoc analyses are challenging to interpret. 
Finally, we note that the same multiplicity issue exists here as with the ITT 
mortality analysis based on comparing randomized groups in that death alone 
was not a pre-specified primary or secondary endpoint in the double-blind period 
or the OLE.  
 
 
2) Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model (RPSFTM) to account for 

treatment crossover 
 
The Applicant states that other fields, such as oncology, have utilized placebo 
crossover design to maintain ethical clinical trial designs, while also providing 
estimation of survival benefit of treatment. One of these approaches to estimate 
survival benefit is the rank-preserving structural failure time model (RPSFTM), 
which controls for the effect of crossover in OS results if the associated 
untestable assumptions hold. The RPSFTM provides an estimate of the OS time 
for the placebo group, had treatment switching not occurred.  
 
The Applicant used such a model to analyze the CENTAUR OLE data and 
demonstrated that the estimated median survival benefit for AMX0035, as of 
March 1, 2021, was 9.7 months, compared to the 4.8 month OS benefit seen in 

12 
 



the original NDA analysis. The estimated hazards ratio (HR) was 0.42 (0.18, 
0.99) compared to the original 0.64 (0.42, 1.00). These results were published in 
Muscle & Nerve2 and are presented below in Figure 2.  

 
 
Figure 2: Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model Results 

 
 
 
 
 

FDA Position:   
 

The presented RPSFTM analysis is not independent data and is simply a new 
method for analyzing the same survival data presented in the original NDA 
submission. The Applicant has conducted this new analysis to attempt to 
estimate what survival would have been in patients assigned to placebo had they 
never entered the OLE. This can only be done with strong, untestable 
assumptions. Furthermore, there were no prespecified analyses to adjust the 
placebo arm for switching to AMX0035 in the OLE in the placebo vs. AMX0035 
comparison, i.e., this is a post hoc analysis. Such switching was mandated for 
continuing placebo completers by study design, which reduces the ability to 
answer the question of a possible survival benefit of the original AMX0035 arm 
compared to a hypothetical, unswitched placebo arm. The analysis also suffers 
from the same interpretability challenges as the ITT analysis based on the 
randomized groups, such as multiplicity issues due to the exploratory nature of 
the death alone analysis. Despite all of these limitations, it is notable that while 
the estimated effect from this analysis is slightly larger, the confidence interval is 

 
2 Supplementary Appendix to Paganoni S, Watkins C, Cawson M, et. al. Survival analyses from the 
CENTAUR trial in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: Evaluating the impact of treatment crossover on 
outcomes. Muscle Nerve 2022 May 4. doi: 10.1002/mus.27569. Epub ahead of print.  

13 
 



wider and the p-value is the same as from the ITT analysis based on the 
randomized groups. 
The following expands on the concerns about the reliability of the analysis and its 
heavy reliance on strong unverifiable assumptions. The new analysis comparison 
is counterfactual, i.e., it relies on assumptions about what the survival of patients 
assigned to placebo would have been had they never switched to AMX0035 in 
the OLE. These assumptions and the analysis are questionable because most 
eligible placebo patients switched to AMX0035 by design, and the ineligible 
placebo group (those patients who did not complete the double-blind period) is 
not a random subset. In fact, the placebo patients who dropped out during the 
double-blind period have a worse baseline average ALSFRS-R than the placebo 
completers (i.e., eligible patients for switching). Within the placebo arm (n=48), 
the mean baseline ALSFRS-R is 4.5 points higher for completers (37.6, n=38) 
than for dropouts (33.1, n=10) and there is a similar difference in baseline 
ALSFRS-R between double-blind period AMX0035 dropouts (also not eligible to 
continue into the OLE) and AMX0035 completers. The Latimer et al.3 paper (a 
reference cited by the Paganoni article) suggests that, based on a simulation 
study, 1) the analysis with re-censoring is biased in favor of the treatment arm 
and should therefore be accompanied by an analysis without re-censoring 
(however the applicant stated that there was no viable solution for this data for 
the RPSFTM model without re-censoring), and 2) the bias of the re-censoring 
analysis increases with the proportion switching, which is very high for the 
placebo arm in this trial. 
Furthermore, most of the following best practices for the RPSFTM analysis were 
not implemented in this situation: 

• Carefully consider whether to include switch in trial design; it is preferable 
not to include this from a data interpretation perspective. 

 
• Include the planned method to handle switching up front in protocol and 

analysis plan. 
 

• Consider contemporaneous collection of data on treatment without switch 
outside the trial, in a comparable setting, to provide external validation. 

 
• Consider sensitivity analyses using other methods.  

 
The following is a summary of limitations of the RPSFTM method: 

 
3 NR Latimer, IR White, KR Abrams and U Siebert. Causal inference for long-term survival in randomised trials with 
treatment switching: Should re-censoring be applied when estimating counterfactual survival times? Statistical 
Methods in Medical Research 2019, Vol. 28(8) 2475–2493. 

14 
 









were not adjusted for multiplicity; therefore, the interpretation of the p-values is 
limited. The submitted biomarker data are not clear evidence of a CNS effect or a 
potential for clinical benefit in patients with ALS. 

 

4 ADDITIONAL REGULATORY BACKGROUND 
 
As noted above, there is a substantial unmet medical need in ALS, as exists for so 
many of the devastating neurological diseases for which treatments are desperately 
needed, with the ability to apply regulatory flexibility in the face of this demonstrated 
need. As described in the 2019 FDA draft guidance on “Demonstrating Substantial 
Evidence of Effectiveness for Human Drug and Biological Products”:4 “In all cases, FDA 
must reach the conclusion that there is substantial evidence of effectiveness to approve 
a drug; however, the degree of certainty supporting such a conclusion may differ, 
depending on clinical circumstances (e.g., severity and rarity of the disease and unmet 
medical need).” 
The following information is provided as additional regulatory context for the committee 
members to inform panel discussions. 
 

4.1 Regulatory pathways to approval 
 
Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness 
To approve a drug, substantial evidence of effectiveness must be provided by the 
Applicant. This standard must be met for all diseases, ranging from common, mild, non-
life-threatening conditions with limited morbidity and abundant available treatments to 
serious, life-threatening, and/or fatal diseases with limited available treatments. In the 
neurological space, essentially all diseases fall into some aspect of the latter category 
and demand the application of regulatory and scientific consideration and flexibility 
appropriate to the context of the disease for which a given treatment is being 
developed, along with a contextual consideration of the issues associated with that 
treatment. Although two adequate and well-controlled clinical investigations are the 
typical standard for generating substantial evidence of effectiveness in many disease 
settings, there are scenarios in which a single trial can be used to establish 
effectiveness, either with or without additional confirmatory evidence. As described in 
FDA’s 1998 guidance, “Providing Clinical Evidence of Effectiveness for Human Drug 
and Biological Products”5 and reiterated in the 2019 draft FDA Effectiveness Guidance, 

 
4 https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/demonstrating-substantial-
evidence-effectiveness-human-drug-and-biological-products. When finalized, this guidance will represent the 
current thinking of the FDA on this topic. 
5 https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/providing-clinical-evidence-
effectiveness-human-drug-and-biological-products 
 

17 
 



in the absence of confirmatory evidence, reliance on a single trial to establish 
effectiveness should generally be limited to situations in which the trial has 
demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically very persuasive effect on mortality, 
severe or irreversible morbidity, or prevention of a disease with potentially serious 
outcome, and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be impracticable or 
unethical. Essentially, we are able to rely on the evidence from a single trial in isolation 
when it provides evidence that is similarly persuasive to that which might result from two 
separate trials taken together. As we discussed with the committee previously, it 
appears that the primary evidence provided by the placebo-controlled CENTAUR study, 
in absolute isolation, is undoubtedly promising but does not appear independently 
persuasive. 
Under certain circumstances, FDA can also conclude that one adequate and well-
controlled clinical investigation plus confirmatory evidence is sufficient to establish 
effectiveness.  
Factors that FDA may consider relevant to such a situation are described in the 
aforementioned 2019 guidance, and include: 

• The persuasiveness of the single trial 
• The robustness of the confirmatory evidence 
• The seriousness of the disease and whether there is an unmet need 
• The size of the patient population 
• Whether it is ethical and practicable to conduct more than one adequate and 

well-controlled clinical investigation 
As further described in the guidance, examples of confirmatory evidence may include: 

• Data from adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the drug in a closely related approved indication 

• Data that provide strong mechanistic support of the drug in the pathophysiology 
of the disease 

• Data from a well-documented natural history of the disease can potentially 
reinforce very persuasive and compelling results from a single AWC study.  

• Scientific knowledge about the effectiveness of other drugs in the same 
pharmacological class 

The same statutory standards for effectiveness apply to all new drugs, including drugs 
developed for ALS. However, FDA has also long stressed the appropriateness of 
exercising regulatory flexibility in applying the statutory standards to drugs for serious 
disease with unmet medical needs, while preserving appropriate assurance of safety 
and effectiveness. (21 CFR 312.80 subpart E, Drugs Intended to Treat Life-Threatening 

18 
 



and Severely Debilitating Illnesses). Whether one trial, one trial plus confirmatory 
evidence, or two trials, consideration of the character and persuasiveness of the 
evidence must take into account the nature of the disease under consideration and the 
associated unmet medical need. In the neurological space, we will unfailingly consider 
the evidence, whatever its quantity, in that context. 
Accelerated approval 
Often, when discussing substantial evidence of effectiveness, we are discussing 
evidence based on direct assessment of clinical benefit, and such substantial evidence 
may result in a traditional approval.  Accelerated approval is a particular type of 
approval that FDA may grant for a product for a serious or life‐threatening disease or 
condition upon a determination that the product has an effect on an endpoint that is not 
itself a direct measure of the clinical benefit of interest but is instead reasonably likely to 
predict that clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the 
condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. 
Concerning accelerated approval, it is crucial to recognize that the evidentiary 
standards for effectiveness are not lower for endpoints used to support accelerated 
approval than those used for traditional approval.  Substantial evidence of an effect on 
those endpoints must be demonstrated.  As we discussed with the committee 
previously, substantial evidence comes from adequate and well controlled investigations 
and is evidence that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to have in 
labeling.  Accelerated approval concerns the character of the endpoints, not the 
strength of the results on those endpoints.  An effect on an endpoint supporting 
accelerated approval must be an effect on an endpoint that in its character is 
reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit and, in its persuasiveness, provides 
substantial evidence of effectiveness from adequate and well controlled trials, just as 
substantial evidence of effectiveness on a clinically meaningful endpoint from adequate 
and well controlled trials supports traditional approval.  
In the case of AMX0035 for ALS, we do not have data for an effect of AMX0035 on an 
endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit for ALS. The ALSFRS-R and 
survival are direct measures of clinical benefit and are acceptable endpoints to support 
traditional approval; therefore, if the Applicant provided data for these endpoints that 
met the substantial evidence requirements, the Agency would be able to grant a 
traditional approval.  
It is also worth noting that some other countries have “conditional approval” marketing 
authorization pathways that allow for an approval of a product that does not meet the 
evidentiary standards for effectiveness required for “full” approval in those countries. 
This pathway may often be confused for the “accelerated approval” pathway in the US; 
however, there are distinct differences. Although both pathways are intended to 
expedite the availability of therapies that address an unmet need, the “conditional” 
pathway may allow for the marketing authorization for products for which the benefit-risk 

19 
 



of the medicine is positive, the benefit of immediate availability of the drug to patients is 
greater than the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required, and it is 
likely that the Applicant will be able to provide comprehensive data after marketing 
authorization is granted.6 However, in contrast to the accelerated approval pathway in 
the US, the “conditional” pathway does not have a requirement for substantial evidence 
of effectiveness. 
In this regard, it is important for the committee to be aware of and note the recent 
approval of AMX0035 in Canada, using one of these “conditional approval” pathways, 
the Health Canada regulatory authority known as “Notice of Compliance with Conditions 
(NOC/c)”.  This form of market authorization is granted to a product on the basis of 
promising evidence of clinical effectiveness.  “Promising clinical evidence” is explained 
by Heath Canada to be evidence based on well-controlled and well-conducted clinical 
trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate or clinical endpoint 
that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit.7  It is thus similar in some ways to 
FDA’s accelerated approval pathway but relies on promising evidence rather than 
substantial evidence. 
 

4.2 Unmet medical need 
 
There are currently two approved products for ALS in the US, riluzole and edaravone.  
Although these drugs have demonstrated benefits for ALS, the disease remains 
progressive and fatal despite these available therapies.  There is an urgent unmet 
medical need for new treatments for individuals with ALS.  This unmet need provides 
important context when considering the evidence supporting the AMX0035 application. 
 

4.3 Regulatory flexibility 
 
Our regulations allow for regulatory flexibility to expedite the development, evaluation, 
and marketing of new therapies intended to treat persons with life-threatening and 
severely debilitating illnesses, especially where no satisfactory alternative therapy 
exists. As stated in 21 CFR 312.80 Subpart E Drugs Intended to Treat Life-Threatening 
and Severely-Debilitating Illnesses:  
“The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has determined that it is appropriate to 
exercise the broadest flexibility in applying the statutory standards, while preserving 
appropriate guarantees for safety and effectiveness. These procedures reflect the 

 
6 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-regulatory/marketing-authorisation/conditional-marketing-
authorisation 
7 https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/drug-products/applications-
submissions/guidance-documents/notice-compliance-conditions.html  
 

20 
 



recognition that physicians and patients are generally willing to accept greater risks or 
side effects from products that treat life-threatening and severely debilitating illnesses, 
than they would accept from products that treat less serious illnesses. These 
procedures also reflect the recognition that the benefits of the drug need to be 
evaluated in light of the severity of the disease being treated.” 
The 2019 FDA draft guidance, “Demonstrating Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness for 
Human Drug and Biological Products”, discusses clinical circumstances where 
additional flexibility may be warranted, such as when a disease is rare or the disease is 
life-threatening or severely debilitating with an unmet medical need. 
The guidance states that, “in certain settings, a somewhat greater risk (compared to 
placebo-controlled or other randomized superiority trials) of false positive conclusions – 
and therefore less certainty about effectiveness – may be acceptable, when balanced 
against the risk of rejecting or delaying the marketing of an effective therapy, (…) for an 
unmet medical need.” 
The guidance provides examples of the use of regulatory flexibility in consideration of 
alternate trial designs to the standard randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study and the use of surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoints under the accelerated 
approval pathway. Additionally, the guidance states when flexibility may be considered 
on the p-value:  
 “A typical criterion for concluding that a trial is positive (showed an effect) is a p value 
of < 0.05 (two sided). A lower p value, for example, would often be expected for reliance 
on a single trial. For a serious disease with no available therapy or a rare disease where 
sample size might be limited, as discussed further below, a somewhat higher p value – 
if prespecified and appropriately justified – might be acceptable.” 
Regarding the number of trials considered sufficient to establish effectiveness, the 
guidance states that a single trial may be sufficient “when a large multicenter trial has 
demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically very persuasive effect on mortality, 
irreversible morbidity, or prevention of a disease with potentially serious outcome, a 
second trial would be impracticable or unethical.” For rare diseases the guidance notes 
that, “a second trial may be infeasible in certain rare disease settings where the limited 
patient populations preclude the conduct of a second trial. In these cases, the 
substantial evidence of effectiveness would typically be provided by a single trial plus 
confirmatory evidence.”  
 

4.4  History of regulatory flexibility in ALS 
 
There are two FDA-approved treatments for ALS, riluzole and edaravone. Both 
approvals demonstrate the Agency’s history of regulatory flexibility in ALS.  

21 
 



Riluzole (Rilutek) was approved for ALS in 1995. The exact mechanism by which 
riluzole exerts its therapeutic effects in patients with ALS is unknown, although it is 
purported in the literature to modulate the neurotransmitter glutamate. 
The approval of riluzole for the treatment of ALS was based on two adequate and well-
controlled trials that assessed survival. In both studies, riluzole did not show a 
statistically significant difference using the pre-specified statistical analysis method 
(p=0.12 and 0.076). The Agency felt that an alternative test was a more appropriate 
statistical analysis method for these trials. Using this methodology, both studies were 
found to demonstrate statistically significant effects on survival (p=0.05 for both studies). 
These post hoc results using an alternative test in the two studies that resulted in an 
exploratory finding of nominal significance was found to meet the substantial evidence 
of effectiveness standard for riluzole in ALS. 
The intravenous (IV) formulation of edaravone (Radicava) was approved for the 
treatment of ALS in 2017, and an oral formulation (Radicava ORS) was approved for 
ALS in 2022. The exact mechanism by which edaravone exerts its therapeutic effects in 
patients with ALS is unknown, although it is purported in the literature to have an 
antioxidant effect. 
The approval of edaravone for the treatment of ALS was based on a single 6-month 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted in 137 Japanese patients 
(randomized 1:1) with ALS who were living independently. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant difference of 2.5 units (95% 
confidence interval 1.0, 4.0; p=0.013) in decline of the ALSFRS-R. The results were 
corroborated by multiple sensitivity analyses conducted by FDA (MMRM analysis 
p=0.0003, Wilcoxon joint rank p=0.0009). Results of several secondary endpoints 
trended favorably. FDA noted that the study had characteristics that made it 
appropriate, as a single study, to provide substantial evidence of effectiveness. Some of 
these characteristics included: a multicenter study in which no single site contributed an 
unusually large fraction of the patients and no single site was disproportionately 
responsible for the treatment effect; consistency across subsets of study participants; 
persuasive results with strong p-values. 
Although every drug development program is distinct and must be considered 
individually, this history of the application of regulatory flexibility in ALS is a relevant 
precedent for both ALS and other neurological diseases and should be taken into 
account when considering the evidence supporting the AMX0035 application. 
  

4.5 Ongoing Phase 3 trial 
 
Study A35-004 (PHOENIX) (NCT05021536) is a Phase 3, randomized, placebo-
controlled trial of AMX0035 in patients with ALS. The primary objective of the trial will be 
to assess AMX0035 compared to placebo on the change from baseline of ALSFRS-R 

22 
 



and survival over 48 weeks. The study also includes assessments of respiratory 
function (slow vital capacity (SVC)), several patient-reported outcomes, and ventilation-
free survival rates. The study will enroll approximately 600 subjects at over 70 sites in 
the US and Europe. The trial is expected to complete in late 2023 or early 2024 with 
results available shortly thereafter.  
This places the Agency in a challenging situation of potentially making a regulatory 
decision that may not be subsequently aligned with the results of the ongoing study.  
 

4.6 Expanded Access 
 
The Applicant has an expanded access program available in the United States (US), 
Study A35-006, to allow for access for AMX0035 for eligible adults with ALS with 
symptoms for at least 3 years and who are not eligible to participate in clinical trials.  
Details regarding the US expanded access program are available on the applicant’s 
website “US Early Access Program” and in clinicaltrials.gov (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 
NCT05286372). 
 
 
 
 

23