Source URL: https://www.ab-science.com/ab-science-has-received-approval-from-several-european-countries-to-initiate-the-confirmatory-phase-3-study-of-masitinib-in-als/

AB SCIENCE HAS RECEIVED APPROVAL FROM SEVERAL EUROPEAN COUNTRIES TO INITIATE THE
CONFIRMATORY PHASE 3 STUDY OF MASITINIB IN AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS
THIS APPROVAL FOLLOWS PROTOCOL VALIDATION BY THE EMA AND FDA AUTHORIZATION
Paris, July 24, 2025, 8am CET
AB Science SA (Euronext - FR0010557264 - AB) today announced that the confirmatory Phase 3 study with
masitinib in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), study AB23005, has been authorized by the first set of
European countries (Spain, Greece, Slovenia) in Step 2 of the Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS)
procedure. This authorization follows EMA's validation of the harmonized protocol, approved at the end of
Step 1 of the CTIS procedure, and followed the authorization from the FDA. Consequently, AB Science can
now initiate this registration study in Europe and the United States.
Professor Albert Ludolph, MD, PhD (University of Ulm, Germany), principal investigator of the study, said:
"Masitinib ALS study AB23005 has great potential because it’s design is based on strong clinical and preclinical
data. That is to say, results from the first 48-week Phase 2B/3 study, AB10015, which generated a strong
hypothesis with significant survival of several months in the patient population being targeted in this
confirmatory study, and also numerous preclinical studies that provide compelling insight into masitinib’s
mechanism of action in ALS and its effect on biomarkers such as neurofilaments (NfL) by targeting mast cells
and microglia."
Alignment with the FDA and EMA on the Phase 3 design and, in particular, the study
population focused on patients who respond best to masitinib.
Study AB23005 is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-arm study
in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), to confirm the efficacy and safety of masitinib (at a dose
of 4.5 mg/kg/day in combination with riluzole) as compared against riluzole in combination with placebo
after 48 weeks of treatment.
The study will include 408 patients (randomized 1:1) with ALS, with normal disease progression (i.e.,
functional decline of less than 1.1 points per month) and no total loss of function (i.e., a score of at least 1 on
each of the 12 items of the ALSFRS-R score). US patients receiving edaravone will also be eligible to participate
in the study, with the use of this drug being a stratification factor.
This design has been validated in discussions with European health authorities, particularly with regard to
the criteria for the optimal population selected for the confirmatory study:
- Patients without rapid progression: Experts of the EMA's Scientific Advisory Group on Neurology
(SAG-N) considered the categorization of the study population with normal progressors, defined as
an average rate of change in the ALSFRS-R of less than 1.1 points per month, as clinically relevant
and consistent with the expected progression of the disease, and therefore acceptable when
predefined, which is the case for this study.
- Patients without complete loss of function: The SAG-N experts considered that the ALSFRS-R scale is
widely used in clinical practice and that administration criteria are available for healthcare 
2 's page 4
professionals. Therefore, the subgroup of patients with very severe ALS (who have a score of zero on
at least one of the 12 individual items of the ALSFRS-R) can be easily identified in clinical practice. 
In this subgroup, defined as patients before complete loss of function and with normal disease progression,
which corresponds to the optimal population of best responders to masitinib that is targeted in study
AB23005, the AB10015 study generated extremely robust results, with a median survival increase of +12
months.